

CCFT Release Notes
Customer Carbon Footprint Tool


















































Copyright (c) 2025 Amazon Web Services, Inc. and/or its a?liates. All rights reserved.

Customer Carbon Footprint Tool: CCFT Release Notes
Copyright (c) 2025 Amazon Web Services, Inc. and/or its a?liates. All rights reserved.

Amazon's trademarks and trade dress may not be used in connection with any product or service that is not Amazon's, in any manner that is likely to cause confusion among customers, or in any manner that disparages or discredits Amazon. All other trademarks not owned by Amazon are the property of their respective owners, who may or may not be a?liated with, connected to, or sponsored by Amazon.














































Table of Contents
Customer Carbon Footprint Tool Release Notes	1
Additional resources	1
Release notes	1
2025	1
2023	5
2022	5

Customer Carbon Footprint Tool Release Notes
The Customer Carbon Footprint Tool (CCFT) release notes provide details about Customer Carbon Footprint Tool releases. This includes new features, updates, ?xes related to the service, console, and calculation. When we release any updates to the Customer Carbon Footprint Tool service, release notes are published describing the content of the release.

Additional resources
Use the following resources to learn more about the Customer Carbon Footprint Tool.

• Customer Carbon Footprint Tool chapter in the AWS Billing User Guide - Concepts, tool guidance, set up, and estimation reference materials.
• Customer Carbon Footprint Tool - Marketing overview of the Customer Carbon Footprint Tool.
• AWS Sustainability - AWS initiatives, goals, and progress in addressing environmental issues and promoting sustainable practices across its global operations.

Release notes
Topics
• Customer Carbon Footprint Tool release notes for 2025
• Customer Carbon Footprint Tool release notes for 2023
• Customer Carbon Footprint Tool release notes for 2022

Customer Carbon Footprint Tool release notes for 2025
This section documents the updates made to Customer Carbon Footprint Tool. This page lists announcements about new or updated features, bug ?xes, improvements, and deprecated functionality for the year 2025.
August 15, 2025
Updates to market-based emissions calculations in multiple AWS Regions

Customers with usage in Canada West (Calgary), Canada (Central), US West (N. California), Asia Paci?c (Jakarta), and edge locations in North America will see a decrease in their market-based

emissions in their May 2025 data. Customers with usage in Asia Paci?c (Osaka) and Asia Paci?c (Tokyo) will see an increase in their market-based emissions in their May 2025 data.

These changes re?ect Amazon's continued commitment to expand our use of carbon-free energy and progress toward meeting net-zero carbon by 2040 while also continuing to wind down our use of unbundled renewable energy credits (uRECs). These adjustments a?ect emissions calculations starting January 2025. We will implement these updates on historical data by Q1 2026 to ensure consistent reporting.

July 23, 2025

Energy consumption calculation page is now available

Added a new page that explains how to calculate the estimated energy consumption of your AWS cloud carbon footprint using CCFT. For more information, see Calculating your energy usage.

July 17, 2025

Emissions data correction for Frankfurt and Paris regions

Customers with usage in Europe (Frankfurt) and Europe (Paris) will see a one-time decrease in location-based emissions in the April 2025 data. The unique structure of these two regions required new logic to correct over-estimation by ~29% (Frankfurt) and ~6% (Paris). This over-
estimation a?ected Customer Carbon Footprint Tool and Data Exports data displayed for these locations between January 2024 and March 2025.

June 24, 2025

Location-based method (LBM) emission calculation is launched

The Customer Carbon Footprint Tool and AWS Data Exports now include emissions calculated using the location-based method (LBM), in addition to the existing market-based method (MBM) calculations. LBM calculates emissions based on the average carbon intensity of electricity grids where energy consumption occurs. Electricity grids worldwide vary in their power sources. Some rely more heavily on carbon-intensive fuels like coal, while others use a higher percentage of low- carbon sources such as hydro or other renewables. To learn more about LBM, see the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.





Data granularity for Amazon CloudFront emissions is now available

The CCFT now displays Amazon CloudFront emissions separately in the service breakdown, located in the CCFT console, CSV download, and AWS Data Exports. This aligns with the existing breakdown available for Amazon EC2 and Amazon S3.



Emissions threshold updated for granularity and expanded historical data

The CCFT now shows emissions data at a more granular level with expanded historical coverage. Previously, data was not visible if estimated emissions for the AWS account didn't exceed 0.05 MTCO2e over a 36 month period. Now, estimated emissions is visible in the CCFT console and CSV download as long as emissions for any period rounds to 1 kg (0.001 MTCO2e). CCFT console or CSV download will show 0 emissions for the selected time period if the estimated emissions are below 0.0005 MTCO2e. With this update, the CCFT console and CSV download contains 38 months of data instead of the previous 36 months.


Improvements made to service allocation logic

An issue was found in a previous CCFT allocation logic that incorrectly assigned emissions to some AWS services (for example, CloudWatch, Amazon Redshift, and Sagemaker) as overhead rather than basing data on usage or revenue. The new methodology 2.0.1 addresses this issue, starting from March 2025. This update might cause some changes to your carbon emissions.

April 24, 2025

CCFT supports region granularity

The Customer Carbon Footprint Tool displays emissions by AWS Region, for example Asia Pacific (Tokyo), US East (Ohio). Emissions by AWS Regions shows your detailed carbon footprint, allowing you to see how your usage in di?erent AWS Regions contributes to your carbon impact. You can also use this information to develop targeted reduction strategies.

Carbon emission estimates are available in AWS Data Exports

Carbon Data Exports for carbon emissions estimates is available through the Billing and Cost Management Data Exports. When customers use AWS Organizations, the carbon emissions data export delivers carbon emissions estimates for all the member accounts linked to management accounts. The exports are delivered regularly to a designated Amazon S3 bucket. From there, you can use the data with your business intelligence and reporting systems. This feature streamlines the consolidation and delivery of carbon emissions data from multiple AWS accounts to be used by sustainability teams and business analysts to monitor environmental impact across complex AWS environments.

Carbon Data Exports is available in all commercial AWS Regions. You can con?gure automated monthly exports to an Amazon S3 bucket in CSV or Parquet format. The data provides both account-level and Regional-level details. Organizations can access up to 38 months of historical data within 24 hours of setup. This enables baseline analysis and trend reporting without the need for manual data gathering. To set up your ?rst carbon export, see AWS Data Exports.

CCFT methodology updated to version 2.0

The Customer Carbon Footprint Tool is using an updated methodology with the release of your January 2025 data. This methodology is assured by Apex, a third-party consultant. To see the full third-party veri?cation letter, see the AWS Customer Carbon Footprint Tool methodology assurance letter.

Your reported estimated emissions ?gures might have changed as a result of this methodology update. The new method provides a more precise attribution of carbon emissions based on your actual AWS service usage. Your Customer Carbon Footprint Tool data before December 2024 will continue to use the previous methodology (version 1.0).
To learn how the Customer Carbon Footprint Tool values are calculated, see Customer Carbon Footprint Tool (CCFT) Methodology.
January 15, 2025
CCFT moved to a new dedicated console page

The Customer Carbon Footprint Tool moved to a dedicated page in the AWS Billing and Cost Management console. You can ?nd the page under Cost and Usage Analysis in the navigation pane. The previous location under AWS Cost and Usage Report has been deprecated.
Customer Carbon Footprint Tool release notes for 2023
This section documents the updates made to Customer Carbon Footprint Tool. This page lists announcements about new or updated features, bug ?xes, improvements, and deprecated functionality for the year 2023.
April 19, 2023
CSV download feature enabled for improved granularity

The Customer Carbon Footprint Tool supports a CSV download option. This allows you to review detailed carbon footprint data and use the data in other reporting systems for further analysis and information sharing.
Customer Carbon Footprint Tool release notes for 2022
This section documents the updates made to Customer Carbon Footprint Tool. This page lists announcements about new or updated features, bug ?xes, improvements, and deprecated functionality for the year 2022.
March 01, 2022
AWS Customer Carbon Footprint Tool goes live

You can now use the Customer Carbon Footprint Tool to calculate the environmental impact of your AWS workload. This new tool uses intuitive data visualizations for multiple purposes. It

provides your historical carbon emissions and evaluates emission trends as your AWS use evolves. The tool also approximates the estimated carbon emissions customers have avoided by using AWS instead of an on-premises data center. Finally, it reviews forecasted emissions based on current use. These emissions show how your carbon footprint changes as Amazon continues towards our goal of powering operations with 100% renewable energy by 2025. This is ?ve years ahead of
the original target of 2030, and drives towards net-zero carbon by 2040 as a part of The Climate Pledge.
You can use the Customer Carbon Footprint Tool in the AWS Billing and Cost Management console to help support your sustainability journey. After signing in, you can view your carbon emissions data by geographical location as well as by AWS services (for example, Amazon EC2 and Amazon S3). You can also measure changes to your carbon footprint over time as you deploy new resources to the cloud. Customer Carbon Footprint Tool uses data that meets the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the international standard for greenhouse gas reporting.


















