

Ref.: SEC/373/2025-26


The Secretary, Listing Department BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street,
Mumbai - 400 001. Maharashtra, India. Scrip Code: 500470


                          June 6, 2025 The Manager, Listing Department
National Stock Exchange of India Limited Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1,
G Block, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051.
Maharashtra, India. Symbol: TATASTEEL


Dear Madam, Sirs,

Sub: Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for FY2024-25

Please find enclosed herewith the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report of Tata Steel Limited ('Company') for FY 2024-25 ('BRSR'). The BRSR forms part of the Company's 10th Integrated Report and 118th Annual Accounts for FY2024-25 ('Integrated Report').

The BRSR along with the Independent Reasonable Assurance Report on the BRSR Core Indicators (on Standalone basis) provided by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP are available on the website of the Company at: https://www.tatasteel.com/investors/integrated-reportannual-report/118-integrated-annual- report-2024-25

The Integrated Report is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.tatasteel.com/media/23894/fy25-integratedreport.pdf

The BRSR is being submitted pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) and other applicable provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, read with applicable circulars issued in connection with submission of BRSR.
This is for your information and records. Thanking you.
Yours faithfully,
Tata Steel Limited

PARVATHEESAM

Digitally signed by PARVATHEESAM KANCHINADHAM

KANCHINADHAM Date: 2025.06.06 19:04:53 +05'30'
Parvatheesam Kanchinadham
Company Secretary and Chief Legal Officer Encl.: BRSR



BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Financial Year 2024-25

Index
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES	133
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES	146
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURES	151

Principle 1:	Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable

151

Principle 2:	Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe	155

Principle 3:	Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains

159

Principle 4:	Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders	168
Principle 5:	Businesses should respect and promote human rights	171
Principle 6:	Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment	176

Principle 7:	Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent

186

Principle 8:	Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development	188
Principle 9:	Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner	190



SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. Details of the listed entity
S. No. Particulars	Company Details
1 Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity	L27100MH1907PLC000260

2 Name of the Listed Entity	Tata Steel Limited
3 Year of incorporation	1907
4 Registered office address

5 Corporate address

Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001



6 E-mail	cosec@tatasteel.com
7 Telephone	+91 22 6665 8282

8 Website	www.tatasteel.com
9 Financial year for which reporting is being done	April 1, 2024 - March 31, 2025

10 Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed	a.	BSE Limited
b.	National Stock Exchange of India Limited
11 Paid-up Capital (H in Crore)	1,248.60

12 Name and contact details of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR report

Mr. Parvatheesam Kanchinadham Company Secretary and Chief Legal Officer
Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400 001 Tel.: +91 22 6665 7330| E-mail: cosec@tatasteel.com




13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e., for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated financial statements, taken together)?
The financial, environmental, social and governance disclosures made in this report are disclosed both on a standalone and on a consolidated basis for Tata Steel Limited.
It should be noted that the mergers of the following Indian subsidiary companies of Tata Steel Limited have been approved by respective jurisdictional National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) during FY2024-25.
1. Angul Energy Limited (AEL)
2. Bhubaneshwar Power Private Limited (BPPL)
3. The Indian Steel & Wire Products Limited (ISWP)
Accordingly, the Company has accounted for the mergers retrospectively for all periods presented in the standalone financial statements as prescribed in Ind AS 103 - "Business Combinations" as well as the non-financial KPIs published in BRSR. The previous periods' figures, wherever applicable, in the BRSR, have been accordingly restated from April 1, 2023. The reporting methodology of FY2024-25 is in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Circulars SEBI/HO/CFD/ PoD2/CIR/P/0155 dated November 11, 2024 (Section IV-B), SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/ CIR/2024/177 dated December 20, 2024 and SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2025/42 dated March 28, 2025.


The consolidated disclosures of Tata Steel Limited include the performance of Tata Steel Limited and its 9 key subsidiary companies, as listed below

RegionEntityIndia (Parent Company)1.Tata Steel Limited (TSL)Subsidiaries in India1.Tata Steel Downstream Products Limited (TSDPL)2.Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (TSUISL)3.Neelachal Ispat Nigam Limited (NINL)4.Tata Steel Support Services Limited (TSSSL)5.Tata Steel Technical Services Limited (TSTSL)Subsidiaries outside India1.Tata Steel Nederland BV (TSN)2.Tata Steel UK Limited (TSUK)3.Tata Steel (Thailand) PLC (TSTH)4.Tata Steel Minerals Canada Limited (TSMC)These companies constitute 99% of Tata Steel's consolidated revenues, 95% of Tata Steel Group's employee base and 99% of Tata Steel Group's emission footprint.
It should be noted that on account of change in the boundaries of the standalone entity due to the mergers and consolidated disclosures due to the inclusion of new entities in the disclosure boundary, the FY2023-24 disclosures have been restated based on the revised boundary, to give a like-to-like comparison.
Throughout this report, the following phrases have been used:
1. Tata Steel Limited or Tata Steel Standalone: The boundary is only the standalone entity 'Tata Steel Limited'.
2. Tata Steel Indian Entities: Tata Steel Indian Entities include TSL, TSDPL, TSUISL, NINL, TSSSL and TSTSL.
3. Tata Steel Consolidated: Tata Steel Consolidated includes Tata Steel Limited, Tata Steel Indian entities, TSN, TSUK, TSTH, TSMC.

Basis for reporting:
1. All indicators have been consolidated without adjusting for minority shareholders in the relevant group entity, wherever applicable.
2. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions reported using the Greenhouse Gas protocol [Corporate Accounting & Reporting Standard and Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard], consolidated based on operational control for key subsidiaries.
3. Equity-consolidated emissions of Joint Ventures included in Scope 3 under category 15 (Investments).
4. Inter-company adjustments have been undertaken (revenue, GHG emissions, and energy consumption), wherever applicable.
5. The reported revenue, total capex, and R&D expenditure are on a consolidated basis (unless mentioned otherwise), aligned with the consolidated financial statements of Tata Steel Limited.
6. Energy consumption has been reported based on secondary and primary energy consumption, including feedstocks.
7. The reporting period for various indicators ranges from 1 - 3 years and is aligned with the prescribed SEBI format.
8. FY2024-25 was an important transition year for Tata Steel, due to some significant events such as commissioning of the 5 MTPA facility at Kalinganagar as part of its Phase-2 expansion and closure of the heavy end legacy assets, including the two Blast Furnaces, at Tata Steel UK and merger of three of its subsidiary companies in India.
9. The reporting boundaries for FY2023-24 have been revised to account for the mergers during FY2024-25.
10. The Industry standards on reporting of BRSR core, issued by SEBI dated December 20,2024, have been referred to, as applicable for FY2024-25 BRSR Core KPIs. Consequently for certain KPIs the figures reported for this year may not be directly comparable to those reported in the previous year due to changes in standards prescribing an approach different from that taken by the Company last year.


Statement of Assurance
14. Name of Assurance Provider
The Board of Tata Steel Limited has appointed Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP (PW & Co CA LLP) for assurance on BRSR Core indicators and select indicators in the Annual Integrated Report.
15. Type of Assurance Obtained
PW & Co CA LLP has undertaken reasonable assurance of the BRSR Core indicators on a standalone basis for FY2024-25. Additionally, Tata Steel has opted to voluntarily disclose the BRSR core indicators on a consolidated basis for the select entities as mentioned above. In addition, PW & Co CA LLP has also undertaken the assurance on a standalone basis or steel making sites, of select environmental, social and governance (ESG) indicators, which are part of the ESG factsheet published in the Company's Integrated Report.
Reasonable Assurance Report on BRSR Core indicators & select indicators of ESG factsheet and Limited Assurance Report on select indicators of ESG factsheet issued by PW & Co CA LLP are annexed to Tata Steel's Integrated Report for FY2024-25 and accessible on the link: https://www.tatasteel.com/investors/integrated-reportannual-report/
It is to be noted that Tata Steel's key subsidiary companies, Tata Steel Nederland BV and Tata Steel UK Limited, are in the middle of significant restructuring due to the planned transition to low emission steelmaking. As a result, while Tata Steel has undergone assurance on a standalone basis, it has also adopted a pathway to undertake assurance on a consolidated basis subsequent to transition.

II. Products/services
16. Details of business activities

S. No. Main Activity group code	Description of

Business Activity Code	Description of
 
% of turnover of the company

1	C	Manufacturing	C7	Metal and metal products	92.69
Note: The details of business activities as given in MGT- 7 for Tata Steel Limited.

17. Products/Services sold by the entity:

Tata Steel Consolidated	Tata Steel Standalone


S.
No.Name of Product/ServiceNICTurnover (? cr.) FY2024-25% of Turnover of
the entityTurnover (J cr.) FY2024-25% of Turnover of
the entity1Sale of Steel Products24102,02,984.75931,22,825.46932Sale of Non-Steel Products-11,631.7556,478.5253Sale of power and water35101,927.5611,561.54136004Income from services-296.290-05Others-1,702.1611,651.141Total-2,18,542.511001,32,516.66100Note: i.	Above split based on Tata Steel consolidated and standalone turnover as reported in Company's Integrated Report FY2024-25.
ii.	Others include income from export and other incentive schemes.

III. Operations
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:

LocationNumber of plantsNumber of officesTotalIndia76143219Outside India392059

With manufacturing operations in India, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and Thailand, Tata Steel is one of the most geographically diversified steel companies globally. The Company has raw material resources in India and Canada. It also has a downstream presence in the United States, France, Germany, and other countries.
19. Markets served by the entity:
a. Number of locations
Locations	Number
National (No. of States)	28 States and 8 Union Territories
International (No. of Countries)	94
b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
Tata Steel has an export presence from India to the global market. It directly serves international clients through its subsidiary companies strategically positioned in various regions. Consequently, Tata Steel provides a breakdown of its sales between domestic and international markets, ensuring transparency in its global sales operations. Additionally, Tata Steel discloses exports conducted directly by Tata Steel Limited from India to the global market.

Revenue - Tata Steel (Consolidated)	Amt in J Crore
Particulars	FY2024-25	FY2023-24
India1,26,360.051,34,248.75Outside India92,182.4694,922.03Total2,18,542.512,29,170.78Note: Sales Outside India includes export revenue from India. The above split is based on Tata Steel Consolidated turnover as reported in the Company's Integrated Report for FY2024-25.

Revenue - Tata Steel (Standalone)	Amt in J Crore
Particulars	FY2024-25	FY2023-24
Exports Revenue7,700.458,722.66Total Revenue1,32,516.661,40,932.65% of exports in total revenue66
c. A brief on types of customers
Tata Steel classifies its customers based on industry, geography, and customer type.
The market segments for Tata Steel are, but not limited to, auto & ancillaries, retail segment such as Individual Housebuilders, Construction and Infrastructure, etc. The majority of the sales from the Indian operations of the Company are domestic, while the European operations serve markets across Europe, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The Company's products are tailored to the needs of the regional markets.
Customer accounts are grouped under the following four categories:
1. Business-to-Business (B2B): Major Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) in the automotive and construction sectors, as well as project customers.
2. Business-to-Emerging Corporate Accounts (B2ECA): Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).
3. Business-to-Consumers (B2C): Individual Retail Consumers.
4. Business-to-Government (B2G): Government Organisations and Public Sector Undertakings.



IV. Employees
20. Details as at the end of Financial Year
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled):







Tata Steel Consolidated


S. No. Particulars	Total (A)

Male	Female	Others


No. (B)	% (B/A)	No. (C)	% (C/A)	No. (D)	% (D/A)



Employees1	Permanent (E)73,43266,69690.86,6449.1920.12	Other than Permanent (F)1,94596349.598250.5--3	Total Employees (E+ F)75,37767,65989.87,62610.1920.1Workers4	Permanent (G)42,35639,59493.52,6706.3920.25	Other than Permanent (H)1,55,2291,46,78694.68,4375.460.06	Total workers (G + H)1,97,5851,86,38094.311,1075.6980.1Note 1: Other than Permanent Workers (H) include workforce hired through third party job contracts. A sizable number is engaged to carryout expansion projects, including that at Kalinganagar.
Note 2: 'Permanent Employees' (E) includes Permanent Workers (G). 'Permanent employees' includes all personnel on rolls of the Company excluding those on fixed term contract, who are covered under 'Other than Permanent employees' (F). Permanent workers (G) are on rolls of the Company but do not perform managerial or administrative role.
Note 3: 'Others' includes transgender personnel.
b. Differently abled Employees and workers:



S. No. Particulars	Total (A)

Employees

Tata Steel Consolidated
Male	Female


No. (B)	% (B/A)	No. (C)	% (C/A)


1	Permanent (D)15214696.163.92	Other than Permanent (E)-3	Total Employees (D+ E)15214696.163.9Workers4	Permanent (F)12412096.843.25	Other than Permanent (G)*-6	Total workers (F + G)12412096.843.2Note: The data excludes number of differently abled employees for Tata Steel's European subsidiaries, which currently do not capture this data, in line with local practice due to data privacy regulations.
*Only the differently abled workers on Tata Steel rolls are reported.

21. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women


Standalone	Total (A)

No. and percentage of Females





Note : The data is as on March 31, 2025.
1Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director, Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary & Chief Legal Officer.
2Vice-President and equivalent positions, excluding Key Managerial Personnel.


22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers:

FY2024-25FY2023-24FY2022-23MaleFemaleTotalMaleFemaleTotalMaleFemaleTotal

Permanent Employees(%)Consolidated8.89.68.96.39.96.67.510.57.8Standalone7.08.47.15.610.25.99.012.99.3Permanent Workers (%)Consolidated10.18.510.05.87.55.96.99.87.1Standalone6.93.86.64.96.75.07.88.77.9Note: Turnover includes Resignations (attrition) + Separation due to Retirement.
The corresponding data for separation by resignations is provided below:

FY2024-25FY2023-24FY2022-23MaleFemaleTotalMaleFemaleTotalMaleFemaleTotal

Permanent Employees (%)Consolidated2.94.93.13.46.23.63.26.03.5Standalone2.55.62.72.65.22.82.55.92.7Permanent Workers (%)Consolidated2.23.52.32.63.22.61.42.91.5Standalone1.22.11.21.01.61.10.00.00.0
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23. (a)  Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures
Tata Steel Limited does not have any holding company. The details of Promoter and Promoter Group of Tata Steel Limited as on March 31, 2025 is provided in the shareholding pattern available on our website at - https://www. tatasteel.com/investors/stock-exchange-compliances/shareholding-pattern/
The list of subsidiary companies of Tata Steel Limited is provided in Part A of Annexure 5 of the Board's Report forming part of Tata Steel's Integrated Report for FY2024-25.
The list of Joint Ventures and Associate companies of Tata Steel Limited is provided in Part B of Annexure 5 of the Board's Report forming part of Tata Steel's Integrated Report for FY2024-25.

VI. Corporate Social Responsibility Details

24.  SectionDetailsCompany Particularsi)Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013?Yesii)Turnover (in H Crore) for Tata Steel Limited (as on March 31, 2024)1,40,932.65iii)Net worth (in H Crore) for Tata Steel Limited (as on March 31, 2024)1,38,041.53Note: Turnover details are only for Tata Steel Limited.


VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder Group  Grievance Redressal Mechanism in Place
Communities Tata Steel follows the Tata Code of Conduct for grievance redressal, ensuring community concerns are addressed. The Tata Steel Foundation (TSF) engages with local communities in India, impacting over 5.77 million lives across 5,000 villages. They focus on improving marginalised communities through replicable CSR models. The foundation employs a system for real- time feedback and issue resolution involving:
1. Accessibility: Displaying unit heads' contact details for immediate concerns.
2. Open Communication: Using community feedback to drive improvements.
3. Participatory Forums: Engaging councils to address concerns collaboratively.
In the Netherlands, information desks and online complaint forms aid residents in reporting issues.
Tata Steel UK monitors emissions and refined its complaint process following a 2023 survey, ensuring prompt resolutions. Tata Steel's commitment to continuous improvement and community engagement strengthens its social and environmental responsibility.
FY2024-25	FY2023-24
Number of

Number of complaints filed during the year*

complaints pending resolution at close of
the year

Number of complaints filed
during the year*

Number of complaints pending resolution at close of the year





Investors and Shareholders

* Complaints from the communities are recorded for the Company's overseas subsidiaries
The dedicated Corporate Secretarial team addresses retail equity investor queries pertaining to various corporate actions. The dedicated Investor Relations team addresses institutional equity and debt investor queries, keeping them informed about key initiatives through meetings and reports. Events include analyst meets, Investor Day meets, one-to-one meetings, update calls, and the Annual General Meeting. Tata Steel also maintains strong relationships with banking and non-banking investors, regularly interacting with lenders to provide them with requested information and address their queries.
FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Number of

Number of complaints filed during the year *

complaints pending resolution at close of
the year

Number of complaints filed
during the year*

Number of complaints pending resolution at close of the year







Employees and Workers

* The numbers are for Tata Steel Limited.
**For all the 11 unresolved complaints as on March 31, 2025, Action Taken Reports were filed by the Company with Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) before March 31, 2025.
Yes, Tata Steel has established a robust framework for grievance redressal addressing employee and worker complaints through various mechanisms such as MD Online Forum, Performance Appraisal Process, Joint Consultation System, deployment of Liaison and Complaint Officers, Speak Up Platform in India, Integrity Line for Tata Steel Nederland and Tata Steel UK. We also have Zonal and Central Works Committees for handling grievance in India, the Netherlands and the UK through union cooperation.
FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Number of

Number of complaints filed during the year

complaints pending resolution at close of
the year

Number of complaints filed
during the year

Number of complaints pending resolution at close of the year





Stakeholder Group  Grievance Redressal Mechanism in Place
Customers	Tata Steel uses an 8D Complaint Management Process to solve critical problems. This team-oriented approach aims to identify the root cause, create containment strategies, and implement remedies to prevent recurrence. The adoption of TSLCares has significantly reduced average complaint resolution time, and in FY2024-25, it was integrated with DigECA and COMPASS platforms, offering a 24x7 AI-enabled option for raising complaints and queries.
At Tata Steel Nederland (TSN), Complaint Management is a key "Responsiveness" indicator and involves all account team members to address complaints promptly. A PDCA (Plan Do Check Act) meeting is held for each complaint type with internal stakeholders, while service complaints undergo an A3/RCA (Root Cause Analysis) process to monitor progress and improve customer satisfaction.
Tata Steel UK's Complaint Management System manages external customer complaints from initial receipt to resolution, including financial settlement, if needed. Complaints are received by phone or email, and responses are communicated promptly. Evidence such as product samples and photographs may be collected and sometimes supplemented by a visit to the customer.
FY2024-25	FY2023-24

Number of complaints filed during the year

Number of complaints pending resolution at close of the year

Number of complaints filed
during the year

Number of complaints pending resolution at close of the year




Value Chain Partners

Tata Steel Limited has established robust mechanisms for vendor grievance redressal, which includes Speak Up platform for Ethics-related grievances, Vendor Feedback and Dialogue Mechanism with a dedicated Vendor Grievance Redressal Committee, Dedicated service desk called ProCare for all complaints related to Maintenance, Repair and Operations (MRO) & Spares.

FY2024-25	FY2023-24

Number of complaints filed during the year

Number of complaints pending resolution at close of the year

Number of complaints filed during the year

Number of complaints pending resolution at close of the year


Speak-up3756224Vendor Grievance Redressal Committee147191FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Others

Number of complaints filed during the year

Number of complaints pending resolution at close of the year

Number of complaints filed during the year

Number of complaints pending resolution at close of the year



26. Overview of the entity's material responsible business conduct issues.
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format.
Tata Steel uses a Materiality Assessment process to identify business conduct and sustainability issues related to environmental and social matters that pose either a risk or an opportunity to the Company. Independent external advisors conduct these assessments in accordance with global standards every three years. The most recent assessment for the Tata Steel Group was conducted in FY2022-23. The exercise identified several material issues related to environmental and social matters, encompassing both risks and opportunities.



Material issues identified
A. STRATEGIC

A1.  Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate Change Management
Risk	Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity  Approach to adapt or mitigate






Financial implications

A substantial portion of Tata Steel's production is derived from the blast furnace process, which is notably emission-intensive. Tata Steel has pledged to achieve Net Zero emissions by 2045, making the transition to low-emission steelmaking essential for the Company's long-term success.
Negative

Tata Steel in India is implementing strategies to decarbonise its blast furnace operations and is building its first low emission steel plant using an electric arc furnace (EAF) in Ludhiana, Punjab. In the Netherlands and the UK, Tata Steel has taken steps towards low emission steelmaking. The mitigation strategy is detailed in the Climate Change Report, in Tata Steel Integrated Report FY2024-25.


A2. Circular Economy
Opportunity Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity	Tata Steel's Initiatives













Financial implications

Steel is highly recyclable and can be reused as ferrous scrap for new steel, significantly lowering its carbon footprint compared to producing primary steel from iron ore. Tata Steel, aiming for Net Zero by 2045, has implemented usage of scrap in steelmaking. The Company also recycles waste generated during production, either reusing it to cut costs or selling it, such as slag to the cement industry, to generate additional revenue.






Positive

Tata Steel in India generates value through circular processes utilising two primary methods: the Industrial By-Products Management Division (IBMD) creates value from by-products, while the Steel Recycling Business (SRB) sources and supplies scrap for Tata Steel. SRB delivers processed scrap from Rohtak facility and various sources across India, aiming to optimise scrap use in steel making operations and the upcoming electric arc furnace (EAF) based low emission steel plant in Punjab.
Tata Steel Nederland aims to increase scrap usage in steel production from 17% in 2019 to 30% by 2030 (scrap used in FY2024-25 was 20%). Cost-saving initiatives launched in 2024, such as optimising combustion air in Hot Strip Mill furnaces and expanding the hot water waste heat network at the Energy department, resulted in annual savings of nearly 17,000 GJ or 4.7 million kWh.
In the UK, preparatory work for constructing the EAF has commenced. This transition will enable Tata Steel UK to increase scrap usage from 17% to over 70%.


A3. Water Consumption and Effluent Discharge
Risk	Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity	Approach to adapt or mitigate

Tata Steel relies heavily on water from various Addressing water scarcity with the 4R framework-Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, sources for its operations, with usage regulated and Replenish:
across all regions. Non-compliance with effluent Reduce: Minimise freshwater withdrawal by utilising treated sewage for discharge and water use regulations can lead to industrial processes.
environmental fines, operational stoppages, and Reuse: Install Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) and Common Effluent Treatment license revocations. Climate change may reduce Plants (CETPs) to reuse treated industrial effluent within premises. Install Zero freshwater availability in some areas, making it Effluent Discharge Systems to increase treated wastewater reuse and reduce
essential for Tata Steel to minimise water use and natural resource intake.






Financial implications

maximise recycling for cost efficiency.






Negative

Replenish: Enhance groundwater levels through rainwater harvesting structures in the watershed area.
Recycle: Use technologies like dry processes to cut water consumption and treat effluents with reverse osmosis for reuse in steelmaking. Treated effluents are repurposed for applications like coke quenching, slag granulation, sinter mixing, gas cleaning, horticulture, and dust suppression.





A4. Energy Efficiency/Energy Management
Opportunity Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity	Tata Steel's Initiatives







Financial implications

Steelmaking requires a lot of energy, which Tata Steel uses from renewable and non-renewable sources. Energy efficiency initiatives help reduce costs, increase resilience, and meet regulatory obligations. Renewable energy adoption is also crucial for lowering Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions.
Positive

Tata Steel aims to boost energy efficiency across all geographies. We are collaborating with India's Bureau of Energy Efficiency on various projects, using waste heat recovery, renewable energy, alternative fuels, and educating employees about energy management. For details, please refer to the Natural Capital section and Climate Change Report in Tata Steel Integrated Report FY2024-25.


B. OPERATIONS
B1. Occupational Health and Safety

Risk	Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity	Approach to adapt or mitigate







Financial implications

Tata Steel employs many workers and operates near communities such as Jamshedpur, IJmuiden, and Port Talbot. Ensuring safety is vital for the Company, given the hazards of steel production. Safety incidents harm employee health, morale, and Company's reputation. Poor safety processes or major incidents could result in government prohibitions and partial plant closures.
Negative

Tata Steel is dedicated to a strong health and safety culture, aiming for zero harm and setting industry benchmarks. The Company continuously improves safety practices to protect its workforce and communities. It has a comprehensive safety management system and governance structure. For more details, refer to Section C, Principle 3, Essential Indicators, Question 12 in this report.


B2. Air Pollution/ Air Quality Management
Risk	Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity	Approach to adapt or mitigate


















Financial implications

Air pollution exceeding regulatory limits by any Tata Steel site may affect the health and safety of employees, workers, or the community, and result in environmental compensation imposed by regulatory authorities. Additionally, there can be financial loss due to stoppage of operation, withdrawal of the license to operate, and loss of reputation.













Negative

Tata Steel aims to minimise air emissions using advanced pollution control technologies and energy-efficient facilities. The Company has modernised its plants, resulting in significant reductions in stack dust emissions. Emissions are monitored in real-time, and mitigation strategies include upgraded equipment, new technologies, and ongoing maintenance.
In 2024, Tata Steel Nederland (TSN) implemented environmental improvements under the Roadmap+ programme, targeting dust, noise, odour, and other emissions at the IJmuiden site. Efforts include a large dedusting system, windbreaker screens, new dust extraction units, and noise and odour reduction measures. TSN is also working on a transition to low-CO2 steelmaking with additional environmental measures.
At Tata Steel UK (TSUK), new assets like Port Talbot's electric arc furnace use the best available techniques to reduce air pollution, with continuous monitoring of main pollutants. The local planning authority ensures compliance before granting development permission. A Construction Environmental Management Plan will control environmental pollution during construction.
Tata Steel Thailand operates a Fume Plant for dust filtration and has taken steps to reduce emissions, such as improving plant roofs, regular watering, using canvas covers, and installing wind nets.
More details can be found in the Natural Capital section of Tata Steel's Integrated Report FY2024-25.





B3. Biodiversity
Risk	Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity	Approach to adapt or mitigate










Financial implications

Regulatory risks and increased spending due to the requirements of forest diversion and other compliances and restoration of biodiversity loss.








Negative

Tata Steel has a comprehensive biodiversity policy, supported by both corporate- level goal and site-specific Biodiversity Management Plans (BMPs). The primary aim of these initiatives is to avoid, minimize, restore, and regenerate biodiversity impacts while also establishing effective offset and transformative measures. The IJmuiden site in the Netherlands features valuable biotopes like wet dune valleys and herb-rich grasslands, home to species such as the sand lizard and natterjack toad. In the UK, Tata Steel integrates biodiversity into its operations by identifying, protecting, and enhancing habitats, as well as communicating successes to stakeholders.
For more information, refer to Tata Steel's Climate Change Report FY2024-25 and the Natural Capital section of the Integrated Report FY2024-25.


B4.  Research and Development/Technology, Product and Process Innovation
Opportunity Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity	Tata Steel's Initiative

Tata Steel's commitment to R&D, new technologies, and innovation helps serve customers better, maintain leadership in differentiated products, and enter new markets. R&D and innovation also enhance cost competitiveness through improved process efficiency and resource utilization. As Tata Steel aims for Net Zero emissions, the role of R&D becomes even more crucial in advancing low emission steelmaking technology.

Tata Steel aims to be a technology-driven steel manufacturer worldwide. It utilises technology and innovation to create a portfolio of value-added products and maintains a leading position in automotive and packaging steel segments. At Tata Steel Nederland (TSN), 85% of the R&D programme is managed by Research Portfolio Committees (RPCs) for process and product market advancements. The rest supports the Strategic Thrust programme, Data Driven Steel initiative, and Direct Support projects, with Direct Support comprising 5% for short-term inquiries.

Financial implications
C. SOCIAL


For more information, refer to Tata Steel's Intellectual Capital Section of the Integrated Report FY2024-25.


C1. Supply Chain Sustainability
Risk	Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity	Approach to adapt or mitigate

Tata Steel's integrated value chain covers mining Tata Steel has implemented a structured strategy to reduce the environmental to finished steel products, including suppliers, impact of its supply chain and procurement operations, focusing on tracking mines, ports, manufacturing sites, stockyards, and addressing scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. Key initiatives include energy- warehouses, processing facilities, channel efficient upgrades with LED lighting and modern HVAC systems, and the partners, and customers. It manages over 100 deployment of 70% Electric Vehicles (EVs) in warehouse and delivery
million tonnes of materials annually, . The operations resulted into reduction of ~200 tons of CO2 annually. The processes involved in producing, transporting, installation of a 2.2 MW rooftop solar panel at the Jamshedpur Warehouse storing, and handling materials such as iron ore, has led to an energy-positive facility, generating 2,303 MWh against a coal, limestone, refractory, aluminum, zinc, and consumption of 1,582 MWh.
ferro alloys can negatively affect the environment, Tata Steel sets new sustainability benchmarks, aiming to lower Scope 3 contributing to greenhouse gas emissions and emissions through cleaner transportation technologies. In FY2024-25, it other pollutants. Implementing responsible became the first Indian steel company to conduct full laden leg shipments supply chain practices is crucial for sustainability using B24 biofuel from Australia to India, executing 39 biofuel vessels and 5 and maintaining a social licence to operate. LNG vessels, accounting for almost 18% of imported shipments. The Company
Reducing emissions helps improve the Company's has also expanded its green mobility fleet for transporting finished goods to
~300 alternative-fuel vehicles, a 57% increase from FY2023-24.
Additionally, Tata Steel emphasizes ethical sourcing and responsible practices in its supply chain, adhering to the Tata Business Associates Code of Conduct and its Responsible Supply Chain Policy. As of FY2024-25, 1,108 key suppliers were assessed under this policy, with 691 meeting the required standards.




C1. Supply Chain Sustainability


Tata Steel Nederland aims to cut its carbon footprint by 30% by 2030 through the Zero Carbon Logistics programme. Key initiatives include:
" Using the Global Logistics Emissions Council Framework for emissions reporting to compare logistics modalities and improve emission hotspots.
" Implementing strategic processes and governance frameworks to enhance sustainability and operational efficiency.
" Establishing a system to collect compliance documents from logistics providers, ensuring transparency and regulatory adherence.
" Replacing road transport with more carbon-efficient modes like rail and inland barge, reducing truck movements and road travel significantly, supported by subsidies from the Dutch government.
" Partnering with value chain members on cleaner fuels and joining the Sustainable Freight Buyers Alliance.
" Transporting steel by renewable energy-fuelled trains and HVO100- powered barges, saving thousands of tCO2e annually.
" Introducing Zeremis(r) Delivered service to offer low-emission steel transport within 300 kilometres, with plans to expand further.
These measures aim to drive sustainability and operational efficiencies while reducing emissions.
TSUK operates a comprehensive value chain from mining to finished steel, involving suppliers, manufacturing, processing, transport, and customers. It ensures sustainable practices with an in-house Responsible Sourcing Policy, requiring supplier compliance from the start. TSUK holds BES6001 certification for responsible sourcing.
In FY2024-25, Tata Steel Thailand introduced the TSTH Supplier Code of Conduct, outlining standards for Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) practices. This code supports suppliers in operating ethically and responsibly and aligns with the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) Sustainability Assessment.

Financial implications

Positive

C2.  Employee Well-being and Development
Opportunity Rationale for identifying the risk/
opportunity
Tata Steel focuses on employee well-being and development to boost satisfaction and engagement. This helps attract and retain top talent, creating a motivated workforce. This strategy supports Tata Steel's vision of being a global leader in steel, balancing business value with responsible citizenship. A skilled workforce is key to achieving company objectives and industry impact.


Approach to adapt or mitigate

Tata Steel has implemented innovative policies to foster employee relations, growth, and job satisfaction. The agile working model promotes trust and performance while offering remote work flexibility. Tata Steel provides excellent social security benefits for employees and their families. Employees frequently participate in learning programs, and a comprehensive recognition framework offers experiential rewards. The Company nurtures a collaborative workplace built on trust and respect, promoting inclusivity.

Financial implications

Positive





C3.  Community Support and Corporate Social Responsibility/Building thriving Communities

Risk and Opportunity













Financial implications

Rationale for identifying the risk/ opportunity
Risk: Tata Steel has key sites situated near community areas. Maintaining a transparent and trustworthy relationship with the community is essential for Tata Steel to retain its social licence to operate.
Opportunity: Engaging deeply with the community builds goodwill for Tata Steel, ensures public consent to operate, and brings long-term benefits such as community support, loyalty, future employees, and increased awareness of the Company's products and services.




Positive

Approach to adapt or mitigate or Tata Steel's Initiatives

Tata Steel engages in various Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives focused on education, health, livelihoods, and infrastructure to improve the quality of life. The Company values collaboration, affirmative action, volunteerism, communication, and innovation in achieving its objectives. These initiatives aim to support marginalised groups, including women, girl children, and tribes, by incorporating their perspectives.
Tata Steel Nederland focuses on STEM education, environmental restoration, and gender equity through the Tata Steel Academy. Tata Steel UK enables community involvement through sports leagues, youth triathlons, and consultations on projects like the planned electric arc furnace. Positive outcomes from these engagements include the approval of TSUK's planning application for the electric arc furnace by Neath Port Talbot in February 2025. In Tata Steel Thailand, there is a 100% employee participation rate in CSR activities, indicating that "giving back" is integrated into workplace culture. For additional information, refer to the Social and Relationship Capital Section of Tata Steel's Integrated Report FY2024-25.




SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES

Policy and management processes

1 a. Whether your entity's policy/policies cover each principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)

Yes, Tata Steel strictly follows the National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) principles through a set of Board and management-approved policies. These policies cover all nine principles and their core elements, ensuring responsible business conduct. The Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) guides fair practices and ethics for the Company and its employees. Tata Steel has implemented specific policies across operations for consistency and clarity. Subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures also follow the TCoC, with key subsidiaries adopting relevant policies suited to their contexts. Below is a summary of Tata Steel's key policies aligned with the nine NGRBC principles.






S. No. Tata Steel's Policies

NGRBC Principle




S. No. Tata Steel's Policies

NGRBC Principle













P1-Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is ethical, transparent, and accountable. P2-Businesses should provide goods and service in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
P3-Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains. P4-Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.
P5-Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
P6-Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
P7-Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent. P8-Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
P9-Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.

Policy and management processes

b. Has the policy been Yes, Tata Steel's governance framework ensures that key policies are approved by either the Board, or the CEO & MD of

approved by the Board? (Yes/No)


c. Web-Link of the

the Company, depending on the nature of the policy and regulatory requirements, if any. Accordingly, all policies of Tata Steel are approved by one of above mentioned authorities. The key policies approved by the Board and/or various Board committees are marked in above table with asterisk mark (*) . (Refer Section B, Question 1 a)
The remaining policies of Tata Steel are approved by the CEO & MD of the Company.
The policies covering these principles are available on the Company's website under 'Our Policies' section.

Policies, if available Link: https://www.tatasteel.com/corporate/our-organisation/policies/




2. Whether the entity has translated
the policy into

Yes, all policies of the entity have been translated into procedures, which are in various stages of implementation. Various executive committees designated with specific responsibilities have also been constituted for operationalising these policies, called Apex Committees and Sub-committees. These are chaired by either the KMP or SMP of Tata Steel. Some key

procedures. (Yes/No) Apex Committees and Sub-committees of Tata Steel driving the implementation of Tata Steel's policies are listed below:
1. Apex Business & Human Rights Committee
2. Apex Safety Council
3. Apex Committee for Information Security Management
4. Apex Committee for Affirmative Action
5. Apex Risk Review Committee
6. Apex Ethics Committee
7. Ethics Committee
8. Technology & Innovation Management Committee

3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partner? (Yes/No)
4. National and

Yes, Tata Steel's Business Associates Code of Conduct and Responsible Supply Chain Policy Guidelines are applicable to all our value chain partners. They sign their commitment of adherence to the policies at the time of registration.


NGRBC Principle





Council, Fairtrade,
departments Supplying to Automotive Companies in India












5. Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with defined timelines, if any.
6. Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals, and targets
along with reasons in case the same are not met.




Please refer to the ESG Goals section in Tata Steel's Integrated Report for FY2024-25. (Refer Page no. 38)





Please refer to the ESG Factsheet published in Tata Steel's Integrated Report for FY2024-25. (Refer Page no. 108)






Governance, Leadership and Oversight
7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements

"We are pleased to share our 3rd edition of the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) for FY2024-25. Sustainability is a pursuit that is now deeply interwoven into the strategy, operations, and culture of the Company. Our ESG roadmap has been crafted to serve both as a compass and a catalyst, enabling us to address today's challenges while shaping tomorrow's opportunities with resilience and responsibility. We have embraced decarbonisation not as a compulsion but as a deliberate choice with shared enthusiasm. The report highlights how we are moving decisively from intent to impact, re-engineering and future proofing the operations across the full arc of our value chain. We realise technological innovation is our bridge to the future and have accelerated efforts towards digitalisation, automation, AI enabled systems and climate smart solutions to drive sustainability led transformation. The report showcases how our social initiatives across education, healthcare, skilling is transforming the communities, enabling livelihoods, and bridging social gaps. It illustrates how our people strategy, while prioritising safety and well-being, is consciously cultivating diversity and inclusion within our workforce. Finally, our strong and secure governance mechanisms continue to anchor our ESG performance as we maintain unwavering transparency, ethical conduct, and risk resilience." - Mr. T. V. Narendran, CEO & MD, Tata Steel Limited

8. Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight
of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).
9. Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director responsible for decision making on sustainability
related issues? (Yes/ No). If yes, provide details.

The Board of Tata Steel Limited is the highest authority responsible for the oversight of the implementation of the Business Responsibility policies. The Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director of the Company is the highest authority responsible for the implementation of all policies in Tata Steel.





Yes, the Board of Tata Steel has established various committees responsible for sustainability-related policies:
1. Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee (CSR&S): Governs and reviews CSR and sustainability activities, recommends annual business plans, and monitors performance.
2. Risk Management Committee: Oversees management of key risks, including strategic, financial, operational, sustainability, ESG, information security, and compliance risks. Ensures effective risk management practices.
3. Stakeholders' Relationship Committee: Resolves grievances of shareholders, debenture holders, and other security holders, including issues with annual reports, securities transfer, and dividends.
4. Safety, Health and Environment Committee: Oversees policies related to safety, health, and environmental performance across Tata Steel Group.
5. Audit Committee: Supervises the financial reporting process to ensure accuracy and transparency, overseeing internal, statutory, and cost auditors' work.
6. Nomination and Remuneration Committee: Manages the nomination process, including succession planning, and assists with compensation responsibilities for Executive Directors, KMPs, and Senior Management.
Additional information on the Board of Directors of Tata Steel and Committee members of all the Board committees of Tata Steel are provided on the Tata Steel website: https://www.tatasteel.com/corporate/our-organisation/leadership/






10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Indicate whether the review was undertaken by Director/ Committee of the Board/ Any other Committee



Frequency (Annually/Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other - please specify)

Performance against the above policies follow-up action

Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the principles, and rectification of any non- compliances

The Senior Management of the Company regularly reviews the performance against various policies. The Company also shares the update of the key aspects of such reviews to the Board and various Board Committees.
The Company is in compliance with the existing regulations as applicable, except to the extent of disclosures made by the Company in terms of Regulation 30 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations, 2015, as amended and a Statutory Compliance Certificate on applicable laws is provided by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director/ Executive Director & Chief Financial Officer/ Company Secretary & Chief Legal Officer to the Board of Directors.

On a continuous basis



On a continuous basis




11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment/evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
Yes, Tata Steel is rigorously evaluated through the Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM), adapted from the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award Model. External assessors review its policies and execution, leading to the JRDQV Award and recognition as the Benchmark Leader in 2021. As a founding member of ResponsibleSteel(tm), Tata Steel is certified for its Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar, and Meramandali sites, promoting sustainable steel production. The Company consistently earns high scores in periodic external evaluations, including Risk Maturity and the Data and Analytics Target Operating Model (DATOM) assessment, achieving a 3.8/5 "Synergised" score. Tata Steel also holds various certifications like ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018. These accolades highlight Tata Steel's commitment to excellence and sustainability.
Section B Question 4 of this report includes a summary of certifications received by Tata Steel.

12. If answer to question (1) above is "No" i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Not Applicable


SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year:



Segment


Board of


Total number of training and awareness
programmes held

On going- Multiple



Topic/principles covered under the training and its impact


Orientation and awareness sessions for the Company's directors are regularly
   
% of persons in respective category covered by awareness programme
100

Directors	trainings throughout organised. These sessions cover Safety, Health, Environment, Strategy, Industry






Key Managerial

the year





On going- Multiple

trends, Ethics & Governance, and Legal & regulatory matters. These matters are also regularly discussed and deliberated upon in Board meetings, Board's Audit Committee meetings, and other Board committee meetings.
Details of orientation given to the new and existing Independent Directors are available at: https://www.tatasteel.com/media/12333/familiarization-programme- for-independent-directors-for-website.pdf
Regular awareness programmes are held for Tata Steel's KMPs, covering Ethics,







100

Personnel	trainings throughout Governance, Code of Conduct, and Policy Making. Tata Steel's KMPs are also present

(KMPs)

Employees and

the year

On going- Multiple

at key national and international forums, where they engage with their global counterparts and provide thought leadership in multiple areas.
Tata Steel provides year-round training sessions on crucial topics like safety, the Tata



100

Workers	trainings throughout Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and corruption, conflict of interest, and prevention of

the year

sexual harassment, mandatory for all employees. Skill development is customised to job roles, covering areas such as domain-specific knowledge, safety, agile work methods, cybersecurity, quality control, data analytics, and sustainability. An online portal offers personalised learning modules for ongoing professional growth with technical and management courses. Additionally, a dedicated team organises leadership programs for senior management on sustainable development, product innovation, organizational culture, adaptive leadership, and strategic planning, preparing leaders for business challenges.





2. Details of fines/penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format.
Monetary


NGRBC
Principle


Regulatory/enforcement agencies /judicial institutions


Amount (in J)

Has an
Brief of Case	appeal been
preferred?

Penalty/ Fine	Principle 4 Collector of Stamps,
Enforcement - I, Mumbai, Government of Maharashtra





Penalty/ Fine	Principle 4 Collector of Stamps
Enforcement - II, Mumbai, Government of Maharashtra




Penalty/ Fine	Principle 4 Collector of Stamps
Enforcement - II, Mumbai, Government of Maharashtra




Penalty/ Fine	Principle 1 The Office of
Commissioner of Customs (Appeals), Kolkata, West Bengal
Penalty/ Fine	Principle 1 Office of the Assistant
Commissioner of Central Tax, Haldia -II CGST & CE Division, Haldia CGST Commissionerate, Haldia, West Bengal
Penalty/ Fine	Principle 4 Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh



Penalty/ Fine	Principle 4 Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh

1,46,14,380 The case relates to adjudication of stamp duty payable	No by the Company towards implementing the Scheme of Amalgamation amongst The Tinplate Company of India
Limited and Tata Steel Limited and their respective shareholders as approved and sanctioned by the Hon'ble National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench, vide its order dated October 20, 2023. The Collector of Stamps, Enforcement - I, Mumbai, Government of Maharashtra issued the Order imposing a penalty on the Company towards belated filing of stamp-duty application.
1,28,07,700 The case relates to adjudication of stamp duty payable	No by the Company towards implementing the Scheme
of Amalgamation of Tata Steel Long Products Limited into and with Tata Steel Limited and their respective shareholders vide order dated October 20, 2023, passed by the Hon'ble National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench. The Collector of Stamps Enforcement - II, Mumbai, Government of Maharashtra imposed a penalty on the Company towards belated filing of stamp-duty application.
140 The case relates to adjudication of stamp duty payable	No by the Company towards implementing the Scheme of Amalgamation of Angul Energy Limited and Tata Steel
Limited and their respective shareholders vide order dated July 3,2024 passed by the Hon'ble National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench. The Collector of Stamps Enforcement - II, Mumbai, Government of Maharashtra imposed a penalty of on the Company towards belated filing of stamp-duty application.
4,30,172 Imposition of penalty on Tata Steel Limited for inadvertent	No short payment of IGST against goods imported by the
Company from Bhutan.

49,139 Imposition of penalty on Tata Steel Limited for irregular	No availing of CENVAT credit on capital goods.




500 Rule 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Industrial Establishments	No (National Holidays) Rules, 1965 provides for maintaining
a register of National holidays by every employer and to be kept in Form II. The required register was being maintained; however, it could not be presented during the inspection.
500 During the inspection at Sahibabad Plant, it was observed	No certified Standing Orders were not in place.


Settlement	NA
Compounding	NA
Fee
Non-Monetary

Imprisonment	NA
Punishment	NA

(Note: Tata Steel Limited has made disclosures on the basis of Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements), Regulations, 2015) and has disclosed on the entity's website.)


3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details	Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/judicial institutions
NA	NA


4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-link to the policy.
Yes, Tata Steel has an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) Policy, which is also endorsed by its group companies. This policy may be tailored for overseas subsidiaries to comply with local laws. Its main objective is to ensure that Tata Steel conducts its operations ethically and in line with applicable regulations to prevent fraud, bribery, and corruption. The policy applies to all individuals associated with Tata Steel, including employees, contractors, and partners. Awareness is raised through training programmes, and a Compliance Officer is appointed to ensure adherence to the policy and address compliance issues effectively.
The weblink of the policy: https://www.tatasteel.com/media/11802/1-abac-policy_final.pdf
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/Employees/Workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/corruption:
FY2024-25	FY2023-24
DirectorsNilNilKMPsNilNilEmployeesNilNilWorkersNilNil

6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:



FY2024-25	FY2023-24



Number	Remarks	Number	Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the DirectorsNil-Nil-Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPsNil-Nil-

7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
Not Applicable.

8. Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following format:
Tata Steel Standalone	Tata Steel Consolidated
FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables82697469Note 1: As per the industry standards released by SEBI, cost of goods/services procured also includes capital expenditure made by the company in FY2024-25. Hence, the number is not comparable to last year's number to that extent.
Note 2: Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.


9. Openness of business: Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Tata Steel Standalone  Tata Steel Consolidated

Parameter	Metrics



FY2024-25  FY2023-24  FY2024-25  FY2023-24


Concentration of Purchasesa.	Purchases from trading house as % of total purchases0000b.	Number of trading houses where purchases are made from0000c.	Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases from trading houses0000Concentration of Salesa.	Sales to dealers/distributors as % of total sales38%44%23%27%b.	Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are made1,6611,1761,8351,315c.	Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total sales to dealers/ distributors25%25%21%23%Share of RPTs ina.	Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)38%39%5%3%b.	Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)13%12%5%4%c.	Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties/Total loans & advances)44%60%6%8%d.	Investments (Investments in related parties/Total Investments made)98%96%55%57%Note 1: There are no purchases from trading houses, in line with the definition of 'Trading House' in the industry standards issued by SEBI during the FY2024-25, based on the data available with the Company.
Note 2: For "Sales to dealers/distributors as % of total sales", "total sales" has been taken as "Revenue from Operations" as disclosed in Note 24 of Audited Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 in line with the Industry Standards issued by SEBI. Hence, the number is not comparable to last year's number to that extent. There are only two distribution channels - Direct sales and Sales to distributors and for this indicator, sales to distributor has been considered as "Sales to dealers/distributors".
Note 3: For 'Sales (Sales to related parties/Total Sales)', Revenue from operations has been considered as disclosed in Note 24 of Audited Standalone Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
Note 4: For loans & advances and Investments, closing balances disclosed in the Audited Standalone Financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025 have been considered.
Note 5: Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.

Leadership Indicators
1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year: Tata Steel promotes key issues related to the 9 Principles of the National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct among its value chain partners through three main segments: Safety, Ethics, and Supply Chain Responsibility.
a. Safety: All individuals accessing Tata Steel sites receive mandatory safety training at Safety Leadership Development Centre (SLDC) and e-learning modules. Vendor partners also undergo skill certification training.
b. Ethics: Vendor partners participate in awareness sessions on the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, Tata Code of Conduct, and Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy.
c. Supply Chain Responsibility: Tata Steel conducts regular awareness sessions on its Responsible Supply Chain Policy. In FY2024-25, sessions were held for 325 suppliers.
TSUK Procurement revised the TSUK Responsible Sourcing Policy and contributed to the Modern Slavery Act, engaging with approximately 2,300 suppliers to ensure policy acknowledgement.
Tata Steel Thailand established the TSTH Supplier Code of Conduct, covering ESG practices and aligning with Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) Sustainability Assessment.


2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No). If yes, provide details of the same.
Yes, Tata Steel has the Tata Code of Conduct for all members of Tata Steel's Board, which requires all Directors of the Company to always act in the interest of the Company and ensure that any other business or personal association which they may have does not involve any conflict of interest with the operations of the Company. In case of any actual or potential conflicts of interest, the concerned Director is required to immediately report such conflicts and seek approvals as required by the applicable law and under Company's policies.
The Company receives an annual declaration from its Board of Directors and all employees confirming adherence to the Code of Conduct, which includes the provisions on dealing with conflict of interest.
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY2024-25	FY2023-24 Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D1100%
(H916 Crore)     100% The cost encompasses all expenditures, including those on (H953 Crore) environmental and sustainability initiatives such as low-emission transition, minimising freshwater consumption, maximising value
from waste, improving energy efficiency, fostering a circular economy, and developing solutions for utilising low-grade raw materials.Capex37%18% Includes investments in low CO2 emission transition, other air emission (SOx, NOx and dust) reduction, water conservation and effluent treatment, solid waste utilisation, improvement of safety and employee welfare initiatives.1100% of Tata Steel's R&D spent is aligned with one or more of the 9 Principles of the National Guideline for Responsible Business Conduct

2 a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
Yes, Tata Steel has a Responsible Supply Chain Policy (RSCP) for critical suppliers, encouraging sustainable practices based on Fair business practices, Health and safety, Human rights, and Environmental protection. A 4-step Sustainable Procurement Framework has been piloted for bulk materials in FY2024-25:
a) Planning/product selection - Identifying ESG risks and understanding sustainable products and suppliers.
b) Vendor selection - Considering vendors who qualify the assessment process.
c) Evaluation and contract issuance - Assessing sustainability performance and incentivising superior performers.
d) Contract Management - Integrating sustainability requirements into contracts with performance monitoring.
TSUK's Responsible Sourcing and Modern Slavery Policies apply to all suppliers, focusing on ESG principles. Suppliers must adhere to ethical, social, safety, and security standards.
During onboarding, suppliers commit to these policies, code of conduct, and undergo evaluation and risk assessment. In FY2024-25, TSUK engaged approximately 2,300 vendors, ensuring their commitment. Procurement will continue to deploy current and new policies throughout the supply chain in FY2025-26.


b.	If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
Tata Steel requires all suppliers to sign its Business Associate Code of Conduct during registration which focuses on key areas of compliance with respect to applicable laws, prevention of bribery and corruption, maintenance of high standards for health and safety, human rights, environmental protection, safeguarding company assets, ethical third-party representation, violation reporting mechanisms, and avoidance of conflicts of interest. In India, 100% of our suppliers commit to Sustainable Sourcing. In addition, the Sustainable Procurement Framework defines the criteria for vendor selection which include ESG aspects. Sustainable Procurement Framework has been implemented in few categories of Fe Alloys and Metals. In the Netherlands, 33% of inputs come from suppliers who uphold these or similar standards. In the UK, all suppliers are made aware of the Responsible Procurement Policy.
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
Steel typically lasts 25 to 30 years, making it perfect for a circular economy. Its durability and versatility allow widespread reuse and life extension. Steel is easily recyclable due to its magnetic properties and can be produced using low-emission technologies. It is genuinely cradle-to-cradle, with end-of-life steel seen as an input rather than waste. Tata Steel maximises scrap usage, reusing internal scrap and sourcing external scrap, demonstrating a commitment to sustainable practices. In FY2024-25, Tata Steel recycled about 4.2 million tonnes of scrap (~1.7 million tonnes internal and ~2.5 million tonnes external). Tata Steel also safely recycles plastic, e-waste, and hazardous waste by working with authorised recyclers and filing returns with relevant statutory bodies.
4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity's activities (Yes/No). If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
Yes. Tata Steel Limited has obtained several certificates, including Plastic Waste EPR Registration for 'Brand Owner' and 'Importer', Battery Waste EPR Registration for 'Producer' in Jamshedpur, Meramandali, and Khopoli, and Hazardous Waste Authorisation as per relevant rules.
At TSN, Dutch EPR (UPV) requires producers to collect, recycle, and process product waste, as regulated in the Environmental Management Act for specific products like batteries, packaging, and car tyres. Extended Producer Responsibility applies to TSUK, mainly concerning steel packaging.
Leadership Indicators
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format.
Yes, Tata Steel conducts LCA for most of its products, demonstrating that better material utilisation and right-first-time manufacturing can reduce production emissions. Tata Steel has collaborated with Tata Projects to do a cradle-to-gate LCA study of solar photovoltaic manufacturing plant commissioned by the company. The aim was to understand the environmental impact of steel in construction projects and to jointly develop sustainable solutions for future projects. Tata Steel UK is renowned for its LCA expertise, winning the World Steel Association's Steelie award multiple times, including in 2024. TSUK's leadership in LCA methodology, carbon accounting, and sustainability assessment has been recognised through global market-oriented, policy-focused, and academic platforms, aiming for better harmonisation and interoperability of accounting methods.


A summary of key products for which Tata Steel conducts LCA, across various geographies, is provided below:


Entity
NIC
Code
Name of product/ service
Turnover (J Cr)% of total turnover (of the respective entity)Boundary for which the life cycle perspective
/ assessment was conductedWhether conducted by independent external agency
Results communicated in public domain









Tata Steel Limited




24105




Hot Rolled & Cold Rolled Steel











1,32,517




45%











Cradle-to-gate


   Verified by Third Party (EPD International AB approved) and Certified by CII (Confederation of Indian Industries)Yes (Partially) https://environdec.com/ library/epd6474
GreenPro certification by CII has been achieved for automotive grades of HR and CR:
https://ciigreenpro.com/ ecolabelled-products/details/ automotive-steel/tata-
steel-limited-_-automotive- and-special-products/hr/ MzEyMzQ%3D

24109
Galvanised, Rebar Steel & Pravesh Doors

19%Verified by Third Party (EPD International AB approved) (Partially)Yes (Partially) https://environdec.com/ library/epd6474
24311
Steel Structural hollow section
2%Verified by Third Party (EPD International AB approved)Yes https://www.environdec.com/ library/epd502024105Tata Pipes1%-No
24311
Tata Ezyfit
0% Certified by CII (Confederation of Indian Industries)
No





TSN24105Hot and Direct Rolled Steel Coil






56,89026%


Cradle-to-gate






Yes, verified by third partyNo24105Pickled Hot and Direct Rolled Steel Coil16%No24105Cold Rolled and annealed Steel Coil8%No24109Galvanised Steel Coil30%	No	
Yes EPD downloads | Tata Steel in Europe (tatasteeleurope.com)
24106
Steel Tube
4% EN15804 modules A, C & D - Cradle to gate, end of life and recycling

24109Organic Coated Steel and Steel building products (cladding and decking)

17%
 EN15804 modules A, C & D - Cradle to gate, end of life and recyclingYes EPD downloads | Tata Steel in Europe (tatasteeleurope.com ISO 9001, 14001, MRPI, EPAQ
& CE-marking, EN 1090-1, EPD
(https://www.sabprofiel.nl/)


TSUK24109Metallic Coated


25,02117%



Cradle-to-gate


Yes, verified by third partyNo24106Tube14%Yes24109Packaging Steel16%No24109Organic Coated19%Yes24105Hot Rolled Dry11%No24105Cold Rolled9%No24109Building Products7%Yes24105Hot Rolled Pickled4%No
TSTH

24109

Wire Rods and Rebar

6,055

48%

Cradle-to-gate
Yes, verified by third partyhttp://www.greenbooklive. com/search/scheme. jsp?id=300 (https://www.eco-platform. org/list-of-all-eco-epd.html)

2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
As identified in the Life Cycle Assessments (LCA), no significant social or environmental concerns and risks arise from the disposal of the Company's products and services. For the Company's Indian operations, more than 80% of finished products are covered under LCA. Tata Steel's overseas entities assess their products under LCA with 78% coverage in Tata Steel Nederland, 97% coverage in Tata Steel UK, and 14% coverage in Tata Steel Thailand.
However, steel production is an energy-intensive process with a substantial emission footprint. These anthropogenic CO2 emissions are a critical source of global warming. Therefore, Tata Steel feels a strong sense of responsibility and has committed to being Net Zero emissions across all operations by 2045. For more details, please refer to the Climate Change Report section in Tata Steel's Integrated Report for FY2024-25.

3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).


Indicate input material

Recycled or re-used input material to total material


FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Process solid waste like slag, scrap, etc.5.811.3Note 1: Includes waste generated from process and reutilised in the process and excludes waste/by-product sold to third parties.
Note 2: There is a change in categorisation of waste and calculation methodology in FY2024-25, so the figures are not comparable with FY2023-24.

4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely disposed - plastic, e-waste, hazardous, others.
In metric tonnes	FY2024-25	FY2023-24
Reused	Recycled  Safely disposed	Reused	Recycled  Safely disposed
Plastics (incl. packaging)

NA

NAE-wasteHazardous wasteOther wasteThe Company does not have any specific product to reclaim at the end of life.

5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Tata Steel is a producer of steel, and steel scrap is not considered waste but is used as input for further steelmaking and is a globally traded commodity. Accordingly, this question is not applicable to Tata Steel's products.


Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains.
Essential Indicators
1.a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total (A)Health Insurance1,2Accident InsuranceMaternity BenefitsPaternity BenefitsDay Care Facilities3Number
(B)% (B/A)Number
(C)% (C/A)Number
(D)% (D/A)Number
(E)% (E/A)Number
(F)% (F/A)Permanent Employees
Male66,69666,69610066,696100Not Applicable62,4879463,74296Female6,6446,6441006,6441006,644100Not Applicable6,30795Others4929210092100Benefits available as applicable 100%Total73,43273,43210073,432100  100% of all maternity cases62,5799470,14196Other Than Permanent Employees
Male963963100963100Not Applicable8759170573Female982982100982100982100Not Applicable95898Others-----Benefits available as applicable 100%Total1,9451,9451001,945100  100% of all maternity cases875911,66385

b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:



% of workers covered by


Category
Total (A)Health Insurance1,2Accident InsuranceMaternity BenefitsPaternity BenefitsDay Care Facilities3Number
(B)% (B/A)Number
(C)% (C/A)Number
(D)% (D/A)Number
(E)% (E/A)Number
(F)% (F/A)Permanent Workers
Male39,59439,59410039,594100Not Applicable36,4009237,91796Female2,6702,6701002,6701002,670100Not Applicable2,55496Others4929210092100Benefits available as applicable 100%Total42,35642,35610042,356100  100% of all maternity cases36,4929240,56396Other than Permanent Workers
Male1,46,7861,46,7861001,46,786100Not Applicable

Not tracked1,34,55892Female8,4378,4371008,4371008,4371006,36575Others4661006100 Benefits available as applicable 100%Not trackedTotal1,55,2291,55,2291001,55,229100  100% of all maternity cases1,40,92891All contract employees in India, under Tata Steel Group, are covered under Employees' State Insurance Corporation benefits and in case of any eventuality or death, financial aid to the family is extended under the Tata Steel Suraksha Scheme.
1Tata Steel employees at Jamshedpur and mining locations are covered under the Company's medical hospital for free medical treatment for self and dependents.
2For Tata Steel's European subsidiaries, Health Insurance and/or medical benefits are either provided by the government (e.g., the National Health Services in UK) or are compulsory. Accordingly, all employees are considered to be covered. Under Thailand labour law, health insurance, accident insurance, maternity benefits, paternity benefits and day care facilities are covered under social security schemes for other than permanent workers.
3For Tata Steel's European subsidiaries, day care facilities are typically provided by the national governments or part of the national school system. Employers are not directly involved, but 100% employees have access to such benefits.
4 Others includes transgender personnel.


c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) in the following format -

StandaloneConsolidatedFY2024-25FY2023-24FY2024-25FY2023-24

Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the company0.170.120.220.20Note 1: For the purpose of calculating the spending on measures towards well being of employees and workers, the Company has considered the expense incurred towards employees/workers Health Insurance, Life Insurance, Medical Expenses, Sports Activities, Safety excellence rewards, maternity and paternity benefits, and other relevant expenses, net of any recoveries made from the employees/workers.
Note 2: Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.

2. Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous FY:
All Tata Steel entities across all geographies provide retirement benefits to all its employees, which are aligned with regulatory requirements and market practices in the respective geography. Key retirement benefits offered by Tata Steel are:



No. of


FY2024-25	FY2023-24
No. of

Applicability (Country)

employees covered as a % of total
employees in the relevant geographies
 
No. of workers covered as a % of total workers in the relevant geographies


 Deducted and deposited with the authority

employees covered as a % of total
employees in the relevant geographies
 
No. of workers covered as a % of total workers in the relevant geographies


 Deducted and deposited with the authority


Employee ProvidentIndia100%	100%No,100%	100%No,Fund BenefitsExempted PFExempted PFGratuity BenefitsIndia100%	100%         No, Exempted PF100%	100%         No, Exempted PFEmployees' StateIndiaCovered	Covered
as per rules	as per rulesNACovered	Covered
as per rules	as per rulesNAInsurance BenefitsPost Retiral MedicalIndia100% are	100 %
 covered under		Permanent either hospitals	Workers are or Co-shared			covered
Mediclaim SchemesNA100% are	100%
 covered under		Permanent either hospitals	Workers are or Co-shared			covered
Mediclaim SchemesNABenefitsStichting Pensioenfonds HoogovensThe Netherlands100% 100% Permanent
Workers are
coveredNA100% 100% Permanent
Workers are
coveredNATata Steel UK definedUnited100%	100%
 Permanent Workers are
coveredNA100%	100%
 Permanent Workers are
coveredNAcontribution schemeKingdomThailand ProvidentThailand100%	100%
 Permanent Workers are
coveredNA100%	100 %
 Permanent Workers are
coveredNAFundThailand Severance Pay Thailand100%	100 %
 Permanent Workers are
coveredNA100%	100%
 Permanent Workers are
coveredNAOthersIndiaa) National Pension Scheme is offered to officers
b) Earned Leaves encashed at retirement   Under Employee Pension Schemea) National Pension Scheme is offered to Officers
b) Earned Leaves encashed at retirement   Under Employee Pension Scheme

Tata Steel Limited offers several voluntary and optional schemes for its permanent employees and workers in India, such as the Tata Steel Superannuation Fund and the TISCO Employee Pension Scheme. Employees who choose not to participate receive a cash payment instead. Post-separation, employees can retain company-provided accommodation for 1 month to 1 year, extendable on a case-by-case basis.
In the Netherlands, the Wenckebach Fund assists former employees with costs from serious illnesses or accidents. Below are brief descriptions of various schemes:
i. Employees' Provident Fund: Defined contribution scheme with a lump sum at superannuation (India).
ii. Gratuity: Defined benefit scheme with a lump sum at superannuation (India).
iii. Employees' State Insurance Benefits: Social security legislation providing medical care and cash benefits (India).
iv. TISCO Employee Pension Scheme: Defined contribution pension for permanent workers (India).
v. Superannuation Fund: Defined contribution pension for permanent employees (India).
vi. National Pension Scheme: Voluntary defined contribution retirement savings (India).
vii. Employees' Pension Scheme: Savings scheme ensuring a pension after retirement (India).
viii. Stichting Pensioenfonds Hoogovens: Defined contribution pension fund for employees in the Netherlands.
ix. Tata Steel UK Defined Contribution Scheme: Pension fund for employees in the UK.
x. Thailand Provident Fund: Defined contribution scheme with a lump sum at superannuation (Thailand).
xi. Thailand Severance Pay: Defined benefit scheme with a lump sum at superannuation (Thailand).
3. Accessibility of workplaces
Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
Tata Steel complies with the RPwD Act, 2016, ensuring accessibility at all locations in India. New buildings meet accessibility standards and existing workstations and washrooms are being modified accordingly. Differently abled employees receive tailored laptops and assistive software/hardware for their specific needs. Workplace productivity software (O365) has built-in accessibility features. New differently abled employees get Company accommodation near the office during onboarding and a buddy to help with relocation and workplace familiarisation.
4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
Yes, Tata Steel has an equal opportunity policy for Persons with Disabilities. In addition, the Tata Code of Conduct incorporates fundamental equal opportunity principles. Tata Steel's equal opportunity policy is in accordance with the provisions of the RPwD Act.
The weblink to Tata Steel's Equal Opportunity & Anti-Discrimination Policy is available at: https://www.tatasteel.com/corporate/ our-organisation/policies/


5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Permanent Employees	Permanent Workers
Gender






Note: NINL, TSUK, and TSN do not record this information. Hence, not included in this KPI's boundary.

6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes, Please refer to Section A, sub-section VII, Question 25 of this report (Grievance Redressal Mechanisms for Employees and Workers)
7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
FY2024-25	FY2023-24



Tata Steel entities in India


Total Employees/
Workers in respective category

No. of Employees/
       Workers in respective category who are part of association
or union


Total Employees/
Workers in respective category

No. of Employees/
    Workers in respective category who are part of association
or union


Total Permanent Employees53,59927,5965152,95328,87055Male49,20025,3735248,99026,76155Female4,3072,133503,8762,02252Others19290988787100Total Permanent Workers31,79426,9908532,37927,97886Male29,29324,7488430,07725,88486Female2,4092,152892,2152,00791Others192909887871001Others include transgender personnel.

FY2024-25	FY2023-24



Tata Steel entities (India + Overseas)


Total Employees/
 Workers in respective category (A)

No. of Employees/
       Workers in respective category who are part of association
or union


Total Employees/
Workers in respective category

No. of Employees/
    Workers in respective category who are part of association
or union


Total Permanent Employees73,43234,9754874,70537,19950Total Permanent Workers42,35634,3698147,16432,22268Note: It is not mandatory for employees in some of Tata Steel's European subsidiaries to inform the Company regarding their union affiliation. Data captured includes only those employees who pay their union dues via the Company but does not include employees (if any) who may be making direct payment to the union. A large proportion of Tata Steel's workforce is part of Union which promotes a healthy work environment.
In steel industry, unionisation is concentrated in the workers category as managerial employees are not unionised. The proportion of unionised staff as a proportion of total permanent employees is 51% and as a proportion of total permanent workers is 85% for Tata Steel and its Indian subsidiaries.


8. Details of training given to employees and workers
FY2024-25	FY2023-24

Category
   
On health and safety measures (%)
     
On skill upgradation (%)
   
On health and safety measures (%)
     
On skill upgradation (%)


EmployeesMale67,65910010070,547100100Female7,6261001007,418100100Others19210010087100100Total75,37710010078,052100100WorkersMale1,86,380100100180,157100100Female11,10710010010,597100100Others198100100151100100Total1,97,5851001001,90,9051001001Others include transgender personnel.

9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
FY2024-25	FY2023-24

Category


      Total Number (A)

No. of employees
  / workers covered (B)


% (B/A)


     Total Number (C)

No. of employees
  / workers covered (D)


% (D/C)


Permanent EmployeesMale66,69658,0598768,25257,47684Female6,6445,465826,3665,03879Others192921008787100Total273,43263,6168774,70568,80392Permanent WorkersMale39,59434,5648743,87034,19778Female2,6702,610983,2072,34073Others192921008787100Total242,35637,2668847,16442,826911 Others include transgender personnel.
2 Total includes overseas employees and workers where gender classification is not available for FY2023-24.

10. Health and safety management system:
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage of such system?
Yes, Tata Steel has implemented an occupational health and safety management system. The system is based on ISO 45001:2018 and is designed to ensure that the Company meets EHSMS (Environmental, Health, and Safety Management System) related legal obligations and provides a safe and healthy working environment for its employees. Safety and Health Management are integrated into the Company's annual business planning process and cascaded down from the Apex level to divisional and departmental levels to ensure employee health and safety and place accountability and responsibility at all levels.


b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity?
Tata Steel has updated its Risk Matrix to improve hazard identification and risk assessment processes through a comprehensive Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Risk Management framework. This framework not only evaluates risks associated with organisational activities but also identifies significant organisational risks and outlines effective mitigation strategies. The Company's commitment to safety is evident in its continuous efforts to develop a strong safety culture and minimise risks through various strategic interventions.
Tata Steel employs several proactive tools and measures to ensure a safe working environment:
Safety Visits and Line Walks: Regular Audits conducted by employees at all levels to identify unsafe acts and conditions.
Elimination of Commonly Accepted Unsafe Practices: Focus on addressing unsafe practices that are commonly accepted.
Fatality Risk Control Programme: Proactively identifies potential risks that could result in fatalities.
Job Cycle Checks: Ensures compliance and adequacy of Standard Operating Procedures at each job stage during performance.
Process Hazard Analysis (PHA): Thorough reviews of risks associated with high-risk operations to prevent incidents such as leaks, explosions, and equipment failures.
Pre-Start-Up Safety Review (PSSR): Conducted before commissioning new equipment or processes to confirm that safety controls are in place.
Emergency Mock Drills: Regular drills to assess the effectiveness of response plans for emergencies like fires, toxic gas leaks, and power failures.
Digital Interventions: Incorporates advanced digital solutions to enhance safety.
Connected Workforce Platform: Utilises plant-wide heat maps to continuously assess risks related to personnel, processes, and assets using electronic data analytics.
Integrated Remote Operation Centre (iRoC): Established for various operations to reduce physical presence in hazardous environments and improve ergonomic conditions for employees.
EnsafeNxt System: Enhanced with new modules leveraging Gen AI to improve data quality and simplify safety observation logging.
Safety Performance Index (SPI) 2.0: Introduces new key performance indicators (KPIs) and scoring logic to reinforce a strong safety culture.
Safety Alert Command Centre: Established at major sites for real-time monitoring and management of safety incidents.
TSN's TrueSafe Programme aims to create a positive safety culture through hazard identification and risk management training for employees and contractors.
TSUK's Hazard Identification Framework, guided by Health and Safety Management System principles, includes site- specific hazard registers and addresses non-routine work-related stress.
TSTH has outlined a series of comprehensive safety campaigns for the fiscal year, focusing on critical safety areas, including material handling, fire & explosion hazards positive isolation practices and process safety management. To support these initiatives, TSTH has implemented Life Saving Rules, introduced Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs) at all plants, and deployed advanced AI CCTV systems to enhance detection of human presence and safety compliance.


c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks.
Yes, Employees can report incidents and near-misses through a custom IT platform for prompt reporting, investigation, and learning. Tata Steel's process identifies root causes and implements corrective measures to prevent recurrence, aligned with the Tata Steel Incident Management System. The 'Speak Up' helpline allows anonymous safety concern reporting, regular safety audits, assessments, and walk-downs by internal and external auditors aim to improve workplace safety. Tata Steel UK utilises a single H&S IT platform (Salus), while Tata Steel Nederland uses several solutions across business units. These platforms encourage reporting of incidents like occupational safety events, environmental issues, process safety events, and fires. Tata Steel Nederland is transitioning to one IT platform (Cority) to manage mitigations, investigations, and preventive measures.
d. Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? The Company provides its employees in India access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services, such as hospitals, dispensaries, and health insurance. At overseas locations our employees have access to national health
services provided by national governments.
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:


Safety Incident/Number	Category

Standalone	Consolidated


FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked)Employees0.390.510.640.69Workers0.290.360.320.45Total recordable work-related injuriesEmployees196219551382Workers481451652672No. of fatalitiesEmployees1010Workers4546High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)Employees4274Workers1892014Number of Permanent DisabilitiesEmployees0101Workers0000Note: Employees include all personnel on rolls of the Company. Workers include third party contractors. This definition is applicable to this table only.
Note: Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on number of Permanent Disabilities, Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and No. of fatalities in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25 (highlighted in green).

12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
Tata Steel aims for zero harm with a structured safety culture through six strategic initiatives:
1. Build Safety Leadership Capability: Standardised health and safety policy, cross-learning from past incidents, active leadership engagement, extended reward & recognition policy, and technology integration for risk reduction.
2. Enhance Competency in Hazard Identification: Safety Leadership Development Centres, real-time incident management at Safety Alert Command Centre, and prevention campaigns like "5 Safe Steps Forward".
3. Ensure Contractor Safety Risk Management: Periodic evaluations, skill upgrades for contract workmen, and quarterly safety audits for vendors.
4. Eliminate Road and Rail Safety Incidents: Technological systems for heavy vehicles, streamlined paperless processes, and live fleet monitoring at Integrated Command Centre.
5. Achieve Excellence in Process Safety Management: Real-time monitoring of equipment, enhanced Pre-Start-Up Safety Review (PSSR), and incorporating learnings into new projects.
6. Promote a Proactive Safety Culture: Regular inventory risk updates, NEBOSH certification programmes for employees. These initiatives demonstrate Tata Steel's commitment to creating a safer workplace for all.


13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY2024-25	FY2023-24

Filed during the
year

Pending resolution at the end of year

Filed during the
year

Pending resolution at the end of year


Working Conditions105911Health & Safety4490813

14. Assessments for the year:



          % of your plants and offices that were assessed (By entity or statutory authorities or third parties) standard



Health and safety practices	100
Working Conditions	100

Note: Assessment by Internal team of Tata Steel

15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions:
All safety incidents and near-misses are investigated, and risk mitigation is performed according to our incident classification, reporting, and investigation safety standards. This process is supported by EnsafeNxt, an IT based platform, where all safety related incidents, observations, etc. are recorded. It is supported by our Environment, Health, and Safety risk management framework. Findings from high-potential incidents are discussed in various Apex meetings, in line with our safety governance structure and safety strategies. The implementation of lessons learned is reviewed by the respective Divisional Implementation Committees, which are chaired by the Vice Presidents. An online dashboard, the Safety Performance Index (SPI), is used to review and track key safety actions. The actions taken under the six safety strategies are listed in Question 12 (Principle 3 Essential Indicator) above.
Risk assessments are conducted periodically and in a structured manner, involving extensive engagement from leadership and cross-functional audits. The process of corrective actions, their horizontal deployment, and communication is continuous at Tata Steel Limited. Moreover, distinct corpus is earmarked for addressing key safety concerns through engineering solutions. These projects are prioritised on the basis of their risk scores. In addition to these, the learning from incidents are shared across geographies and applicable recommendation to prevent recurrence are deployed and monitored.
In Tata Steel Nederland, all safety incidents and near-misses are investigated, and risk mitigation is done through the incident classification, reporting and investigation safety standard (COP and QHSE). To keep track of thesemitigations we are depending on several IT platforms. TSN is in the process of changing towards one IT platform (Cority) to incorporate all mitigations following incidents, incident investigations and preventive observation rounds. All OFIs (Opportunities for Improvement) identified during the internal and external assessments are captured and addressed from the HSSE department towards the relevant Working and Service units. Monthly Steerco's are held for Business Units and on TSN level to keep track of the H&S performance and the projects to improve performance. Next to that TSN has an annual planning process for driving H&S improvement which includes a number of strategic continuous improvement objectives. Feeds into this process include a review of both internal and external data to help identify the significant hazards and compliance obligations for the business. Inputs include incident investigation, legal and regulatory commitments and audit findings.
Tata Steel UK has an annual planning process for driving health and safety improvement which includes a number of strategic continuous improvement objectives. Feeds into this process include a review of both internal and external data to help identify the significant hazards and compliance obligations for the business. Inputs include incident investigation, legal and regulatory commitments, audit findings including non-conformances and others using a PESTLE analysis to understand our organisational context.
In addition, Tata Steel UK captures corrective actions to resolve any reported safety related matters via the single H&S IT platform used across the business.


Leadership Indicators
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (B) Workers.
A) Employees - Yes	B)	Workers - Yes
Tata Steel offers various social security schemes in India to ensure the continuity of living standards for employees and their families. These include:
Family Support Scheme: For death due to workplace accidents.
Family Benefit Scheme: For death due to non-workplace accidents or while commuting.
Employee Family Benefit Scheme: For death while in service.
Medical Separation Scheme: For disability while in service.
Suraksha Scheme: Financial stability for non-permanent workers' families in case of workplace accidents.
Similar schemes are available in Tata Steel's Indian entities, including a Family Protection Scheme for COVID-19 fatalities.
Tata Steel Nederland: The pension fund provides pensions for surviving partners.
Tata Steel UK: Members of the Pension Scheme may receive up to four times their pensionable pay upon death, paid to beneficiaries or other identified persons.
Tata Steel Thailand: Employees are covered under the National Pension Scheme and social security schemes for health and accident insurance.
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value chain partners.
The contract between Tata Steel and its suppliers includes statutory provisions related to the payment and deduction of mandatory dues, such as Goods and Services Tax. While suppliers are responsible for complying with various regulations necessary for their operations, Tata Steel acts as the principal employer. The Contractor Cell at Tata Steel Limited oversees the compliance of statutory payments for the workers of suppliers in key locations.
Suppliers are required to pay all statutory dues to their employees (including Provident Fund and Employee State Insurance etc.) within the specified time frame and these payments are verified by the Contractor Cell members. Any instances of non-compliance may result in legal actions and penalties in accordance with Tata Steel's own policies.
Contract Labour Management (CLM) system captures all data related to Statutory requirements and monitors compliance to the statutes. Warning letters are issued for non-compliances and consequence management framework is in place to address repeat offenders. Contractor Cell works closely with Group Strategic Procurement for blocking/ unblocking of RFQ as per the consequence management framework.
3. Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury/ill- health/fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment.
No. of employees/workers rehabilitated

Total no. of affected employees/ workers
  
and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed
in suitable employment



FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24
Employees8462Workers2420199Numbers for cases of support for Employee fatality/or high consequence injury

4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
Tata Steel, through its subsidiary UK Steel Enterprise, supports economic regeneration in communities impacted by the steel industry changes.


During restructuring, a specialist outplacement partner, Lee Hecht Harrison (LHH), assists those exiting due to redundancy with CV creation, interview skills, job searching, business setup guidance, and retirement planning. Additional pension support is available with ongoing presentations for all employees.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Tata Steel evaluates its critical vendors' health, safety practices, and working conditions under its Responsible Supply Chain Policy. The evaluation includes Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) aspects like fair business practices, health & safety, human rights, and environmental protection. Vendors in high-risk activities must achieve a minimum 3-star rating in the Contractor Safety Management Standard to qualify for RFQs. Tata Steel also supports suppliers in improving their capabilities. In the UK, all value chain partners are risk assessed initially and periodically for health & safety, adhering to OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001:2018, ISO14001:2015 & ISO9001:2015 standards. For more details, refer to the Social and Relationship Capital section of Tata Steel's Integrated Report FY2024-25.

A summary of value chain partners assessed by key Tata Steel entities is provided below:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Tata Steel LimitedTata Steel Nederland BVTata Steel UK LimitedHealth and Safety practices802530Working Conditions802530
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
Tata Steel has taken several actions to address significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. Supplier partners with low scores are supported by the vendor capability team to implement improvement plans as agreed upon during the assessment process. Suppliers can appear for reassessment to improve their maturity score. As of FY2024-25, 231 supplier partners have been reassessed and 66 of them have improved their scores. Tata Steel's Vendor Capability Advancement Program (VCAP) is designed to foster continuous improvement across the vendor base. The programme covers critical focus areas such as safety, quality, delivery performance, productivity enhancement, and sustainability. In FY2024-25, 1,800 supplier partners were covered under the VCAP program which positively impacted more than 27,000 contract workers.
At Tata Steel, high-risk jobs are assigned to only those vendor partners who score 3-star or above ratings in a comprehensive safety due diligence process known as the Contractor Safety Management Standard (CSMS). High- risk work includes working at height, hot work, confined space entry, electrical work, transportation, etc.
Key safety initiatives include mandatory safety requirements in RFQs, recognition and rewards for high-performing vendors, and a streamlined safety assessment process for vendor qualification. In FY2024-25, 1,671 service providers underwent safety assessments. Transportation partners use smart apps to monitor driver behavior, and new drivers receive simulator-based safety training based on Virtual Reality and 3D technology.

Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
Tata Steel conducts a Materiality Assessment process with an independent third party to identify key stakeholder groups and material issues. This process uses various standards such as Global Reporting Initiative, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, EU Sustainability Reporting, MSCI Index, International Labour Organisation Framework, UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, peer company reports, and Tata Steel's past assessments. The AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard, 2015, helps stakeholder identification and engagement. Combining these inputs and independent judgement, the third party identifies Tata Steel's key stakeholders.


2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder Group

S.No. (Whether
identified as
Vulnerable and Marginalised)

Channels of communication	Frequency	Purpose and scope of engagement including key

1 Investors (No)

" Integrated Report, Annual general meeting

Annual	" Business performance
" Investor queries and concerns

" Earnings calls	Quarterly

" Corporate governance






2 Customers (No)

" Investor and analysts meet
" One-to-one meetings (upon request)
" Media updates
" Customer service teams
" Process/product improvement workshops
" Customer meets
" Leadership connect
" Digital platforms
" Milestone celebrations
" Customer engagement and satisfaction surveys

Plan/Need based



Plan/Need based

" Corporate Strategy and business environment


" Quality and safety
" Product information
"  Timely delivery of product/ service
" Privacy/ confidentiality
" Fair and competitive pricing
" Knowledge and infrastructure support

3 Vendor Partner/ " Supplier Value Management

Plan/Need

"  Supplier engagement for high-potential

Suppliers

"  Responsible Supply Chain Policy assessments

based

ideas and impactful projects

(Yes, Tata Steel's "  Vendor Capability Advancement Program

"  Embedding sustainability in the supply chain

AA suppliers)









4 Government

" Supplier Chronicles
"  Trainings and support programs
"  Monthly meeting with contractors






" Meetings and dialogues

and promoting responsible sourcing
" Drive continuous improvement across the vendor base focusing on safety, quality, delivery performance, productivity enhancement, and sustainability
" Inclusion of local medium and small- scale enterprises in vendor base for community support
" Streamlining routine ordering, payment processes for efficiency improvement
On a continuous "  Regulatory compliance










community,

Affirmative Action community)
6 Community







"  Formal meetings and group discussions







Plan/Need







"  Community development programmes -

Representatives " Informal Interactions

based

livelihood, public health, education - based

(Yes)

"  Rural satisfaction survey

on local communities' needs.
" Environmental and social issues.







Stakeholder Group
S.No. (Whether
identified as
Vulnerable and Marginalised)



Channels of communication	Frequency	Purpose and scope of engagement including key

7 Media (No)

" Press conferences
" Media meets
" Conclaves/Summits
" Sports tournaments
" One-to-one interaction with senior management

Plan/Need based

" Transparent and accurate disclosure to stakeholders
" Awareness on Tata Steel's Businesses, Brands and Sustainability initiatives
"  Enhancing Corporate Reputation




8 Industry Bodies, " National and international trade

On a

"  Collaborations on innovation and regulations

Associations and International standard setting organisations
(No)
9 Academic Bodies
(No)

organisations/committees
" National and international standards taskforces and groups



" National and regional committees and sub-committees
"  Joint projects on specific research areas
"  Engagements with startups

continuous basis




On a continuous basis

" Long term viability of the Indian steel industry
" Ease and cost of doing business, fair trade practices and favourable regulatory policies


" Early exposure to emerging technology in thrust areas
" Translation of academic excellence into operational impact
" Alignment on critical industry concerns and policy matters




Leadership Indicators
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
Tata Steel has assigned the responsibility of facilitating consultations between stakeholders and the Board regarding economic, environmental, and social matters to the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (CEO&MD) of the Company. The CEO&MD, along with the senior leadership team from Tata Steel and its subsidiaries, routinely informs the Board and various Board Committees about pertinent issues. Updates are provided during Board meetings and in dedicated sessions for various Board Committees. To ensure that management receives feedback from key stakeholders, Tata Steel has implemented multiple processes that facilitate this communication, enabling discussions at Board and Committee meetings.
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topics (Yes/No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
Yes, Tata Steel uses stakeholder consultations and insights from the Materiality Assessment Exercise to shape its key environmental and social policies. Following this assessment, the Company has set ambitious targets in identified areas as part of its strategic objectives. These initiatives are outlined in the BRSR and aim to balance stakeholder needs while minimising adverse impacts and community risks in their Long-Term and Annual Business Plans. Issues identified during the assessment are incorporated into strategic planning and addressed through action plans and resource allocation in areas like capital expenditure and workforce planning. A governance structure at both the Board and Corporate level oversees material issues and action plans. Committees such as the Safety, Health & Environment Committee and Risk Management Committee at the Board level, and Apex Environment and Apex Risk Review Committees at the CEO & MD level facilitate performance reviews and provide guidance amid external changes.


3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalised stakeholder groups.
In India, Tata Steel operates in Jharkhand and Odisha, where it engages with vulnerable indigenous communities. The Company aims to improve these communities' well-being through regional development models focused on inclusion and national-scale replicable initiatives. Key actions include ensuring safety at operating sites, maintaining community outreach, and supporting public health, nutrition, water access, sanitation, education, livelihoods, sports, disability, dignity, and public infrastructure. More details can be found in the Social and Relationship Capital chapter of Tata Steel's Integrated Report for FY2024-25.

Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
Essential Indicators
1. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format:
All Tata Steel employees and workers are provided training on the Tata Code of Conduct, which cover key human rights issues, the Prevention on Sexual Harassment trainings and other corporate level policies from time to time.

FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Category


Employees


Total (A)
      
No. of employees/ workers covered
(B)


% (B/A)	Total (A)
      
No. of employees/ workers covered
(B)


% (B/A)


Permanent73,43273,43210074,70574,705100Other than permanent1,9451,9451003,3473,347100Total Employees75,37775,37710078,05278,052100Workers
Permanent42,35642,35610047,16447,164100Other than permanent1,55,2291,55,2291001,43,7411,43,741100Total Workers1,97,5851,97,5851001,90,9051,90,905100
2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
100% of employees and workers of Tata Steel are paid more than or equal to the minimum wage, as applicable in their respective jurisdiction.

FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Category


Total (A)

Equal to or more than
Minimum Wage	Total (A)


Equal to or more than Minimum Wage



No. (B)	% (B/A)	No. (B)	% (B/A)
EmployeesPermanentMale66,69666,69610068,25268,252100Female6,6446,6441006,3666,366100Others192921008787100Other than PermanentMale9639631002,2952,295100Female9829821001,0521,052100Others000000WorkersPermanentMale39,59439,59410043,87043,870100

FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Category


Total (A)

Equal to or more than
Minimum Wage	Total (A)


Equal to or more than Minimum Wage



No. (B)	% (B/A)	No. (B)	% (B/A)
Female2,6702,6701003,2073,207100Others192921008787100Other than PermanentMale1,46,7861,46,786100136,287136,287100Female8,4378,4371007,3907,390100Others16610064641001Others include transgender personnel.

3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages:
a) Median Remuneration/Wages
Male	Female


Tata Steel Limited


Tata Steel India including
Indian Subsidiaries	I

Employees & Permanent Workers (other than BoD and KMP listed above)

49,200	12,42,308	4,307	13,04,398

Employees & Permanent Workers (other than BoD and KMP listed above)


17,496	66,45,227	2,337	62,30,267



Note: Directors who were on the Board for part of the year were not considered for median calculation.

1. Remuneration of Board of Directors
S. No. Board of Directors (Male)	Amount
J
1	Mr. N. Chandrasekaran3,20,0002	Mr. Saurabh Agrawal6,40,0003	Mr. Pramod Agrawal*37,50,0004	Mr. Shekhar C. Mande94,00,0005	Mr. V. K. Sharma1,29,40,0006	Mr. Noel Naval Tata1,64,40,0007	Mr. Deepak Kapoor1,67,60,0008	Mr. Koushik Chatterjee13,99,99,2449	Mr. T. V. Narendran17,29,26,765
S. No. Board of Directors (Female)	Amount
J
1 Ms. Bharti Gupta Ramola	1,17,60,000

2 Ms. Farida Khambata**	74,80,000
*Mr. Pramod Agrawal was appointed as an Independent Director effective November 6, 2024.
**In terms of the Retirement Policy applicable to the Board of Directors of the Company and in terms of the shareholders approval dated March 25, 2022, the term of Ms. Farida Khambata (DIN: 06954123) as an Independent Director of the Company ended on December 10, 2024. Accordingly effective December 11, 2024, Ms. Khambata ceased to be an Independent Director of Tata Steel Limited.


2. Remuneration of Key Managerial Personnel
S. No. Key Managerial Personnel (Male)	Amount
J
1	Mr. Parvatheesam Kanchinadham4,32,60,6542	Mr. Koushik Chatterjee13,99,99,2443	Mr. T. V. Narendran17,29,26,765

3. b. Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:

StandaloneConsolidatedFY2024-25FY2023-24FY2024-25FY2023-24

Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages6798Note 1: As per the industry standards released by SEBI, in addition to the permanent employees/workers, salaries to other than permanent employees/workers have been included for FY2024-25. Hence the numbers are not comparable to last year's number to that extent.
Note 2: Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.

4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business?
Yes, Tata Steel has an Apex Business & Human Rights Committee to oversee human rights commitments and also has a Working Committee which addresses human rights related issues. This Committee ensures alignment with Tata values and global principles, maintaining accountability at the highest level. Tata Steel is committed to upholding human rights for all stakeholders and addressing adverse impacts caused by its businesses. The Company's Business & Human Rights policy (https://www.tatasteel.com/media/15484/tsl-policy.pdf) aligns with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and is consistent with the Tata Code of Conduct. This policy applies to Tata Steel and its subsidiaries.
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
Tata Steel is committed to sustainable development and human rights protection, with mechanisms for addressing grievances. Concerns can be reported via the Speak Up platform, email, letter, web helpline, or orally. The Ethics Department registers and investigates cases, providing recommendations to the Chief Ethics Counsellor or relevant authority, who ensures actions are implemented and documented. Grievances involving senior personnel go to the Audit Committee Chairperson, while others are handled by the Chief Ethics Counsellor. Regular updates are given to Tata Steel's Board and Audit Committee.
Tata Steel requires value chain partners to comply with SA8000:2014 and other ISO standards, particularly in regions at higher risk for human rights abuses. Suppliers must implement policies preventing violations such as forced labour. No reports of modern slavery or human trafficking were received in FY2024-25, and third-party assessments found no evidence of such instances in Tata Steel's value chain.
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY2024-25	FY2023-24

Filed during the
year

Pending resolution at the end of year

Filed during the
year

Pending resolution at the end of year


Sexual Harassment53153210Discrimination at workplace73145Child Labour0000Forced Labour/ Involuntary Labour1100Wages001361Other human rights related issues0000

7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format:

StandaloneConsolidatedFY2024-25FY2023-24FY2024-25FY2023-24

Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH) (No. of POSH complaints filed by female employees/ workers)432346	32Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees / workers0.460.260.30	0.22Complaints on POSH upheld (No. of complaints by women upheld)18920	18Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co. Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.

8. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases. Tata Steel follows the Tata Code of Conduct and has policies to address workplace discrimination and harassment. We urge employees, customers, suppliers, and stakeholders to report any violations of our Code, policies, or law, as well as
misconduct that contradicts our values. Retaliation against those who report concerns is not tolerated, and disciplinary
action will be taken against anyone involved. In case of any retaliation respective line managers, Divisional Ethics Coordinators, Ethics Champions, Chief Ethics Counsellor, Human Resource Management department, CEO&MD, or Tata Group's Chief Ethics Officer can be contacted.
For further detail, please refer to the policy section of Tata Steel: https://www.tatasteel.com/corporate/our-organisation/ policies/
9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts?
Yes, human rights requirements form a part of Tata Steel's business agreements and contracts. The terms of a contract or purchase order copies submitted to vendors include compliance with SA8000:2014 requirements, and all vendor partners must comply with such requirements. The SA8000:2014 policy covers various aspects of human rights such as child labour, forced or compulsory labour, health and safety, freedom of association and collective bargaining, non-discrimination, disciplinary practices, working hours, compensation practices, and management systems.
Tata Steel also follows the Business Associate Code of Conduct and expects all value chain partners to adhere to its principles which includes human rights. All suppliers are required to sign the Code of Conduct during registration process committing their adherence to the clauses. The Business Associates Code of Conduct can be found at www.tatasteel.com/ media/9244/business-associates-code-of-conduct.pdf.
Furthermore, Tata Steel's Responsible Supply Chain Policy (RSCP) encourages supply chain partners to share the same commitment to integrate the four principles of the policy (Fair Business Practices, Health and Safety, Human Rights, and Environmental Management) in all their business decision-making, and extend them to their own supply chain.
10. Assessment for the year:
Human Rights issues	% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child Labour

Forced/Involuntary Labour Sexual Harassment Discrimination at workplace Wages
Others

100% of Tata Steel's plants and offices in India are assessed for compliance on key Human Rights issues by internal teams of the Company, as part of the regular ongoing reviews by the senior leadership team of the Company. In addition to the internal assessments, some sites are certified to SA8000:2014 by third party and human rights due diligence were conducted during FY2023-24, as part of a periodic exercise, covering all business units based on sample basis.



11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the assessments at Question 10 above.
No significant risks or concerns were identified during FY2024-25. However, as a responsible Company, Tata Steel ensures continuous monitoring and capability building of its value chain partners through policies such as Responsible Supply Chain Policy, Sustainable Procurement Framework, etc.


Leadership Indicators
1. Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/ complaints.
There had been no major modification or introduction of new processes as a result of addressing human rights grievances/ complaints. However, there have been strong processes in place to address human rights grievances:
1. Grievance Redressal for Contract Employees: A dedicated mechanism allows contract employees to report concerns via a third-party helpline.
2. Contractor Cells: Established at multiple locations to handle contract employees' issues related to wages, provident fund, and settlements.
3. Vendor Training: Regular sessions raise awareness about statutory rights and ensure legal compliance.
4. TCoC Compliance: Vendors sign the Tata Code of Conduct during registration to reinforce ethical practices.
5. OECD Due Diligence in European Operations: Tata Steel's European operations follow OECD's six-step approach for responsible business conduct.
Tata Steel Nederland has integrated a grievance mechanism for human rights complaints, supported by a governance framework and regular training. Human rights considerations are embedded into risk management and business strategy, with continuous monitoring and reporting to enhance accountability.
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
In FY2023-24, Tata Steel conducted third-party human rights due diligence audits for 14 business units, including steelmaking sites, mines, downstream facilities, and suppliers in Jharkhand, Odisha, Maharashtra, West Bengal, and Uttar Pradesh. The audits used sampling based on business unit types, geography, and rightsholders, involving documentation reviews, site visits, online surveys, and interviews. The goal was to identify vulnerable areas, potential risks, and remediation measures, benchmarking against global best practices. Protocols aligned with the UNGPs, OECD Guidelines, IFC PS, SA8000:2014, ILO framework, Tata Group Business and Human Rights Guidelines, and national laws guided the audits. Findings were presented to the Apex Committee, with key policy gaps referred to the Working Committee, while local issue owners addressed specific site issues.
It assessed implementation of the 14 Business and Human Rights principles identified by the Company for the six rightsholder:

i. Child labour	viii. Non-harassment
ii. Forced/involuntary labour	ix.	Right to clean air and water
iii. Fair wages	x.	Right to Privacy
iv. Equal opportunity	xi.	Rights of Indigenous persons
v. Health & Safety	xii. Rights of migrant labours
vi. Freedom of association	xiii. Rights of persons with disabilities
vii. Land rights resettlement and rehabilitation	xiv. Contemporary forms of slavery. Tata Steel has also identified the following 6 rights holders:
i. Tata Steel employees	iv.	Consumers/customers

ii. Contract workforce	v.	Employees of value chain partners
iii. Communities	vi.	Family members of Tata Steel employees


3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Tata Steel has taken steps to ensure compliance with the Rights of Persons with Disability Act, 2016 (RPwD Act) across its sites and locations of Tata Steel (in India). Its plant and office premises are being adapted for easy movement of differently abled visitors and employees. The requisite infrastructure, including ramps, elevators and disabled-friendly washrooms, are being installed at all the premises of Tata Steel.


4. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Human Rights issues	% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Child Labour


Forced/Involuntary Labour Sexual Harassment Discrimination at workplace Wages
Others

~92% of Critical suppliers, contributing to 80% of the total spend were assessed under Responsible Supply Chain Policy in our Indian operations.
Details of the Responsible Supply Chain Policy -
https://www.tatasteel.com/media/10931/tata-steel-responsible-supply-chain-policy_guidelines.pdf


5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the assessments at Question 4 above.
No significant risks/concerns arising from Tata Steel's value chain partners were identified. However, Tata Steel Limited has developed monitoring mechanisms and undertaken several initiatives to build the capabilities of its value chain partners to minimise the risk of potential human rights issues in the value chain.

Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
Essential Indicators
1. Details of total energy consumption (in Giga Joule) and energy intensity, in the following format
Standalone	Consolidated
ParameterUoMFY2024-25
SecondaryFY2024-25
PrimaryFY2023-24
SecondaryFY2023-24
PrimaryFY2024-25
SecondaryFY2024-25
PrimaryFY2023-24
SecondaryFY2023-24
PrimaryFrom renewable sourcesTotal electricity consumption (A)PJ0.380.380.120.120.650.650.200.20Total fuel consumption (B)PJ0.000.000.000.000.020.020.020.02Energy consumption through other sources (C)PJ0.000.000.000.000.010.010.010.02Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)PJ0.380.380.120.120.680.680.220.22From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)PJ22.8670.8619.4260.2126.2581.3924.9677.37Total fuel consumption (E)PJ564.32564.32549.79549.79748.52748.52708.20708.20Energy consumption through
other sources (F)PJ0.000.000.000.000.220.220.170.17Total energy consumed from
non-renewable sources (D+E+F)PJ587.18635.19569.22610.00775.00830.13733.33785.74Total energy consumed
(A+B+C+D+E+F)PJ587.56635.57569.33610.12775.68830.81733.55785.96% of energy consumed from
renewable sources%0.070.060.020.020.090.080.030.03Energy intensity per rupee of
turnoverPJ/D Cr0.00440.00480.00400.00430.00350.00380.00320.0034Energy intensity per Million USD of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations
adjusted for PPP)PJ/Million USD0.00920.00990.00830.00890.00730.00790.00660.0071Energy intensity in terms of physical outputPJ/Million tonnes of
crude steel28.330.728.330.325.126.824.526.3Note 1: The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published for the year 2025 by IMF which is 20.66 for India. Note 2: Conversion factor of 3.1 has been used to convert electricity consumption from secondary to primarybasis for non-renewable electricity based on an average across various sources.
Note 3: Electricity consumption for owned & leased offices and stockyards have been estimated based on BEE Energy Benchmarks for Commercial Buildings. Note 4: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency - Yes. Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above, for "Secondary" column (other than Energy Intensity per rupees of turnover) for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.


2. Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Yes, Tata Steel has 10 sites/facilities identified as designated consumers under the Performance, Achieve and Trade Scheme of the Government of India. All the sites were able to achieve the targets set under the Performance, Achieve and Trade Scheme.
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Standalone	Consolidated

Parameter

UoM



FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Water Withdrawal by Source(i)	Surface water	Million Litres69,34670,1211,37,2241,44,318(ii) Groundwater	Million Litres12,37713,30324,19625,963(iii) Third party water	Million Litres10,3049,86414,76411,991(iv) Seawater/desalinated water	Million Litres--1,94,7051,71,358(v) Others	Million Litres18,80217,65818,80217,658Total volume of water withdrawal (i + ii + iii + iv + v)	Million Litres1,10,8291,10,9473,89,6913,71,287Total volume of water consumption	Million Litres98,60996,9381,26,2561,21,394Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Total water	Kilolitres/H
consumption/Revenue from operations)0.0000740.0000690.0000580.000053Water intensity per USD of turnover adjusted for Purchasing	Kilolitres/US$ Power Parity (PPP) (Total water consumption/Revenue from
operations adjusted for PPP)0.0015370.0014210.0011940.001095Water intensity in terms of physical output of crude steel  Kilolitres/tonnes4.764.824.084.05Note 1: Tata Steel's steelmaking at IJmuiden and Port Talbot are located near the coast. They leverage their location and use sea water for cooling purpose only and not in process (not contaminated). After a slight increase in temperature, they are pumped back into the sea.
Note 2: Water consumption for Corporate Office and stockyards for employees/ workers is estimated based on the document by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA). Further, the proportion of untreated water discharged to the water withdrawn is based on Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) database report dated December 24, 2009.
Note 3: The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published for the year 2025 by IMF which is 20.66 for India. Note 4: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried outby an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of theexternal agency
- Yes. Reasonable Assurancehasbeenundertaken by Price Waterhouse& Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on Totalvolumeof water consumption, Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) and Water intensity in terms of physical output, in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.
4. Provide the following details related to water discharged:


Parameter

Tata Steel Standalone	Tata Steel Consolidated FY2024-25	FY2023-24	 FY2024-25	FY2023-24















Note 1: The proportionof the untreated water discharged for water withdrawnfrom Corporate Office is basedon Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB) database report dated December 24, 2009.
Note 2: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried outby an external agency?(Y/N) If yes, name oftheexternal agency. Yes, Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25 (highlighted in green).


5. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation.
Measures are in place to prevent local water contamination and reach Zero Effluent Discharge (ZED). This initiative has significantly reduced freshwater use, with many subsidiaries already recycling 100% of their wastewater. Two of Tata Steel's four major units in India and the Thailand plant are ZED sites. The company also converts municipal sewage into industrial- use water within its township. In the Netherlands and UK, facilities like IJmuiden and Port Talbot operate near coasts, using once-through cooling systems that return water to the environment without quality loss. These facilities comply with the EU and UK best practices. Additionally at Tata Steel Thailand, SISCO created a new water reservoir with a volume of 48,916 cubic meter.

6. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Standalone	Consolidated

Parameter	UoM



FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Stack NOx	Kilotonnes/year24223231Stack SOx	Kilotonnes/year46455252Particulate matter (PM)	Kilotonnes/year891011
 Persistent organic pollutants (POP)	
 Volatile organic compounds (VOC)	
 Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)	


Not material for the steel manufacturing company

 Others - please specify	
7. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) and its intensity, in the following format: Boundary and Basis:


GHG Emissions	UoM

Standalone	Consolidated


FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Total Scope 1 emissionsMillion tonnes CO2e61597877Total Scope 2 emissionsMillion tonnes CO2e5565Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions (MnT)/Revenue from operations (I crore))
0.0005
0.0005
0.0004
0.0004Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per Million USD of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions (MnT)/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP (Million USD))
0.001
0.001
0.001
0.001Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of physical outputTonnes/tonnes of crude steel3.23.22.72.8Note 1: The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published for the year 2025 by IMF which is 20.66 for India. Note 2: Scope 2 location-based emissions are based on emission factor of electricity of respective countries.
Note 3:Electricity consumption used for Scope-2 calculation for offices and stockyards have been estimated based on BEE Energy Benchmarks for Commercial Buildings.
Note 4: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency - Yes, Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above (other than) Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover) for Standalone figures for FY2024-25 (highlighted in green).

8. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
Details are provided in the Climate Change Report, which is part of Tata Steel's Integrated Report for FY2024-25.
8. a. How many Green Credits have been generated or procured by the listed entity?
Nil


9. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter	Standalone	Consolidated
FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)Plastic waste (A)2,3592,3623,3592,982E-waste (B)201275435796Bio-medical waste (C)2562327624Construction and demolition waste (D)1,7143,07165,94666,358Battery waste (E)687272695320Radioactive waste (F)*----Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)12,27,31415,34,82613,52,80716,73,610Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H)1,61,19,9421,64,26,0971,76,47,9831,89,40,514Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H)1,73,52,4731,79,66,9261,90,71,5002,06,84,603Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Tons/H) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations)0.0000130.0000130.0000090.000009Waste intensity per USD turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Tons/ USD) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)0.0002710.0002630.0000180.000019Waste intensity in terms of physical output (Tons/tcs)0.80.90.60.7For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)Category of waste(i)	Recycled1,64,79,3381,26,36,2831,74,13,0871,31,09,082(ii) Re-used29,59,04874,44,18237,62,38190,71,514(iii) Other recovery operations----Total1,94,38,3862,00,80,4652,11,75,4682,21,80,596For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)Category of waste(i)	Incineration4,1131,7785,4129,745(ii) Landfilling15,9873,59,11861,4664,28,821(iii) Other disposal operations-2,3055,8854,85,444Total20,1003,63,20172,7639,24,009Waste Intensity (MT of Waste Recovered /Total Waste generated)1.1201.1181.1101.072Waste Intensity (MT of Waste Disposed /Total Waste generated)0.0010.0200.0040.045*Tata Steel has trace amounts of radioactive active waste on account of disposal of some equipment and such disposal is undertaken as per regulations and with all due precaution.
Note 1: E-waste, Plastic waste and Battery waste is accounted for at the time of disposal and therefore waste recovered and disposed has been considered as waste generated.
Note 2: The waste recovered and disposed is more than the waste generated due to the legacy stock of previous periods.
Note 3: The revenue from operations has been adjusted for PPP based on the latest PPP conversion factor published for the year 2025 by IMF which is 20.66 for India. Note 4:Plastic waste generation for Offices and warehouses is estimated by considering the Kg per capita per year from OECD Global Plastic Outlook.
Note 5: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency. - Yes, Reasonable Assurancehasbeenundertaken by Price Waterhouse& Co Chartered Accountants LLP, ontheindicatorsinthetableabove, otherthan Waste intensity per rupees of turnover for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.


10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
Tata Steel adheres to the 'Zero Waste' philosophy, employing the 3R (Reduce, Reuse & Recycle) principles of circular economy. The company collaborates with suppliers on various projects aimed at refurbishing equipment to extend its lifecycle and prevent unnecessary waste. Additionally, trial runs have been initiated with suppliers to transition from high- speed diesel to alternative fuels such as Liquefied Natural Gas, aiding in the decarbonisation of mining operations. To minimise waste generated during steelmaking, Tata Steel has established a profit centre for waste management, named the Industrial By-Product Management Division (IBMD), dedicated to efficient by-product management through advanced steel waste processing practices.
1. Reuse & Recycle: Ironmaking and steelmaking slags are the primary by-products of the steel industry, alongside others like dust, sludge, mill scales, waste refractories, etc. These by-products find applications in several areas: externally (BF slag in cement manufacturing, metallic materials in secondary steelmaking, coal tar in coal tar pitch and Carbon Black, and the non-metallics of steelmaking slag in civil works, road construction, fly ash bricks) and internally (flue dust, lime dust, steelmaking sludge, kiln dust, mill scale, iron-bearing muck, GCP sludge, LD slag fines, etc. in sinter making, and metallic materials in steelmaking).
2. Resource Recovery and Utilisation: Tata Steel has invested in cutting-edge technologies for by-product processing to maximise value creation. Key facilities include:
a. Metal Recovery and Steam Ageing Plant: This facility processes steelmaking by-product slag through crushing and screening followed by magnetic separation to recover iron content for use in the steelmaking process. Non-metallic slag aggregates undergo weathering at the steam ageing facility and are employed in civil or road construction, while fines serve as cementitious material.
b. Scrap Processing-Storage-Handling Facility: As part of a significant CO2 reduction initiative, IBMD collects and processes internal scrap to maximise the scrap charge in steel melting shops.
c. New By-product Value Creation Centre: It features an Innovation Lab for developing light concrete products using in-house slag aggregates like Tata Aggreto and Tata Nirman. Green pavers and interlocking blocks have been developed with slag-based aggregates.
d. Slag Processing & Grinding Plant: Blast Furnaces generate air-cooled slag and granulated slag. Granulated BF slag is sold to cement manufacturers, while air-cooled slag is utilised in road construction. Introduction of GGBS (Ground Granulated Blast Furnace Slag) has added value to BF slag, serving as a partial replacement for Ordinary Portland Cement (OPC) in concrete production.
3. E-Waste Management: Tata Steel follows a stringent process for effective e-waste management in compliance with the E-Waste (Management) Rules, 2024. Electronic waste is collected centrally and managed by authorised recyclers who act as a Producer Responsibility Organisation (PRO), certified to operate as per CPCB guidelines.
While most processed solid waste is reused within manufacturing, Tata Steel collaborates with authorised external agencies to dispose of hazardous waste as per Hazardous and other Wastes (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2024.
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones, etc.) where environmental approvals/clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
No, for Tata Steel's Indian operations, we do not have any operations/offices in Ecologically Sensitive Areas (ESAs).


Some of the operations of Tata Steel are around Wildlife Sanctuaries, Forest, Coastal Regulation Zones and the same are listed below.

S. No. LocationsType of Operations Whether the conditions of Environmental approval/clearance are being complied with1	Joda EastMiningYes2	KatamatiMiningYes3	KhondbondMiningYes4	ManmoraMiningYes5	NoamundiMiningYes6	Vijaya IIMiningYes7	Kalamang WestMiningYes8	KoiraMiningYes9	West BokaroMiningYes10	BamebariMiningYes11	Joda WestMiningYes12	TiringpaharMiningYes13	SukindaMiningYes14	KamardaMiningYes15	SaruabilMiningYes16	GandhalpadaMiningYes17	FAMD- FAP and SSPProcessing plantYes18	Tata Steel MeramandaliOperationsYes19	Tata Steel JamshedpurOperationsYes20	Tata Steel TinplateOperationsYes21	Tata Steel GamhariaOperationsYes22	CRM Bara, JamshedpurOperationsYes23	Tata Steel Sponge Iron Plant, JodaOperationsYes24	Tata Steel Wires Division, JamshedpurOperationsYesNote: Tata Steel also operates its Management Development Centre besides the Dimna Lake (Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary) in Jamshedpur since 1954.
Tata Steel's IJmuiden site, located near ecologically sensitive areas like Kennemerland South and Noordhollands Duinreservaat, is committed to biodiversity conservation through Biodiversity Management Plans. These plans include assessments, data collection, and biodiversity sensitivity mapping to enhance ecological conditions.
In the UK, Tata Steel oversees natural habitats, including Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs), working with regulators to manage these areas responsibly. Environmental permits require assessing the impact of operations on nearby habitats, which are generally minimal. Tata Steel also seeks opportunities to promote biodiversity on other landholdings, contributing to the UK's natural heritage.


12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year:


Name and brief details of project	EIA

Proposed Gandhalpada Iron Ore Mine of production capacity 10 MTPA (ROM)



Date

Whether conducted by independent external agency (Yes/No)


Results communicated in public domain



Relevant Web link

with Total Excavation of 180 MTPA (ML Area 241.10 ha) located at Gandhalpada, Guali and Barpada Villages, Barbil Tehsil, Keonjhar District, Odisha State
Ratification of existing EC from EIA, 1994 to 2006 regime and Production enhancement of Mn Ore from 1.80 LTPA (2.118 LTPA- ROM) to 8 LTPA (ROM) & inclusion of Fe
Ore for 20.0 LTPA (ROM) with peak (OB (76.62 LTPA), Topsoil (0.058 LTPA) & Total Excavation (10.4678 MTPA) & 2 x 300 TPH (Dry Mobile Processing unit) in the ML Area (1437.719 ha) - Joda West Iron

S.O.-1533 (E) 13.08.2024	Yes	Yes







S.O.-1533 (E) 17.09.2024	Yes	Yes




















and structures.


Tata Steel UK Limited link: https://www.tatasteeluk.com/green-steel- future/planning


*Note: The EIA does not need to be notified to any third parties separately to the planning application process in UK jurisdiction and therefore does not have it's own number.

13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
Yes, the Company is compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in India such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection Act and rules thereunder.


Leadership Indicators
1. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in million litres):
i) Name of the area:	Tata Steel's facilities at Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar, Meramandali, Gamharia,
West Bokaro, Jharia, Noamundi, Katamati, Joda, Thailand, Canada
ii) Nature of operations:	Steelmaking: Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar, Meramandali, Gamharia and Thailand
Mining: West Bokaro, Jharia, Noamundi, Katamati, Joda and Canada

2. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:

Parameter on areas of water stress

Water withdrawal by source (in Million Litres)(i)	Surface water69,34670,1211,37,2241,44,318(ii) Groundwater12,37713,30324,19625,963(iii) Third party water10,3049,86414,76411,991(iv) Seawater / desalinated water--1,94,7051,71,358(v) Others18,80217,65818,80217,658Total volume of water withdrawal (in Million Litres)1,10,8291,10,9473,89,6913,71,287Total volume of water consumption (in Million Litres)98,60996,9381,26,2561,21,394Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed (Kilo Liltres)/ turnover (H))0.0000740.0000690.0000580.000053Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in Million Litres)(i)	Into Surface water12,00013,85112,08414,170- No treatment--19-- With treatment - Secondary Level12,00013,85112,06614,170(ii) Into Groundwater-31213- No treatment----- With treatment - Secondary Level-31213(iii) Into Seawater--2,24,0222,01,437- No treatment--2,03,0971,79,779- With treatment--20,92521,658(iv) Sent to third-parties220155220183- No treatment---28- With treatment220155220155(v) Others--27,09734,089- No treatment----- With treatment--27,09734,089Total water discharged (in Million Litres)12,22014,0092,63,4352,49,893
3. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions (As per GHG Protocol) & its intensity, in the following format:
Standalone	Consolidated

Parameter	Unit



FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24


Total Scope 3 emissions	Million tonnes CO2e23232925Total Scope 3 emissions	Scope 3 GHG emissions (MnT)/
Revenue from operations (H Cr)0.00020.00020.00010.0001Note: Assessment of scope 3 emissions continues to evolve, having high level of uncertainty and are reported based on available information at the time of publication.


4. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities.
No, for Tata Steel's Indian operations, we do not have any operations/offices in Ecologically Sensitive Areas (ESAs). Some of the operations of Tata Steel are in/around Wildlife Sanctuaries, Forest, Coastal Regulation Zones.
As part of the recent planning permission for a new electric arc furnace at the Port Talbot site, Tata Steel UK (TSUK) has committed to the creation of new habitats and enhancement of existing areas. There is a requirement to manage the 75 acres of new and enhanced habitat for the next 30 years with involvement of local stakeholders. This enhancement includes new reedbeds, wetland areas, fen land, woodland and a wildlife tower. Many of the TSUK sites have mitigation and improvement plans in place to maintain and improve SSSIs, but also the wider site to encourage wildlife into the area. TSUK works with the regulator to create habitat management plans for the SSSI's within our boundaries with the intention to improve the status of the site. TSUK is committed to have 100% of its operational sites under a Biodiversity Management Plan (BMP) during 2025.
5. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/effluent discharge/waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
The initiatives under and product and process areas are summarised below:

Initiative Undertaken	Details of The Initiative Undertaken	Outcome of the initiative

H y dr ogen T hermal Desorption Spectroscopy (HTDS)


Innovative solution for recycling of Fiber Reinforced Polymer (FRP) composite

3D-printing wire (WAAM feedstock) for structural steel applications and digitalisation construction practices.
Novel laser cladding solution for top zone continuous caster rolls for 2x service life.


Development of Smart Bolt System

Accelerated Alloy Discover, product design and process optimisation


Development of Online Pinch Roll Inspection System

Tata Steel has developed the expertise and infrastructure necessary for conducting HTDS (Hydrogen Thermal Desorption Spectroscopy) assessments for the durability of materials like steel in hydrogen- rich environments to mitigate the risk of embrittlement leading to pipeline failures.
Tata Steel has developed a new recyclable thermoset polymer for FRP composites that maintains mechanical properties comparable to conventional FRP while allowing for the complete recovery and reuse of both fiber and polymer.
Tata Steel has created specialised 3D printing wire designed for producing structural steel components, including lightweight tube connectors and hybrid elements for on-site welding

Components such as caster rolls, tuyeres, staves, and sink rolls face harsh environments that reduce their service life and impact productivity and safety. Tata Steel has developed a novel laser cladding solution employing a carefully chosen feedstock composition and optimised parameters to improve the performance and longevity of these critical components.
The Smart Bolt incorporates a flexible printed circuit that is integrated into traditional bolts which detects the wear conditions of the Bolt and facilitates continuous real-time monitoring of liner wear.
The project integrated mathematical models into the Hot Strip Mill (HSM) Level 2 framework using Integrated Computational Materials Engineering (ICME), reducing the new product development cycle from three to four years to one to two years through real-time predictions of microstructure and mechanical properties.
A laser triangulation (LT)-based non-destructive testing (NDT) technique has been developed to assess roll quality. This LT sensor system enables real-time inspection of pinch rolls using a robotic crawler, allowing for online assessments without human involvement.

State-of-the-art facility for line-pipe steels specifically designed for hydrogen transport


Recyclable thermoset polymer for FRP composites


3D printing WAAM feedstock wire, enabling additive construction and future infrastructure development.

Laser-cladded rolls have set a new performance record during plant trials, achieving over 1,100 heats without the need for machining, significantly surpassing the approximately 900 heats produced by bare rolls.
Wireless condition monitoring of Bolt system

Validation against data from various coils at different strength levels showed that 85% of predictions were within a 10% margin of measured yield and tensile strengths.

Automated Remote Monitoring of Pinch Rolls





Initiative Undertaken	Details of The Initiative Undertaken	Outcome of the initiative

Sulphur an alternate to carbon for Ferromanganese production

Throughput and clean coal recovery improvement of Washery concentrate thickener by new design Feed Well

New generation external sparger for column flotation

Replacement of fossil carbon by biochar in primary steelmaking process

Tata Steel's new process uses sulphur as a reductant in producing ferromanganese, improving energy efficiency and reducing costs while creating valuable byproducts. This innovation could enhance sustainability and lower environmental impact.
Dewatering of fine clean coal in our washeries currently faces bottlenecks due to poor settling efficiency of the thickener. Tata Steel has implemented a new feed well design that enhances coal particle mixing, improves reagent dosing, and optimises thickener volume for better settling.
Tata Steel has developed an innovative Static Mixer External Sparger designed for fine bubble generation, which is essential for effective column flotation.
Fossil carbon, primarily in the form of calcined and graphitised petroleum coke, plays a vital role in the primary steelmaking process but leads to significant CO2 emissions. Biochar offers a carbon- neutral option with lower sulfur and nitrogen content, which not only helps reducing emissions but also lowers production costs. Initial Experiments yielded encouraging results when substituting calcined petroleum coke with biochar.

The sulphur reductant has potential to minimise about 40% of CO2 emission in conventional Ferromanganese production

10% throughput improvement




Reduced clean coal ash level


This development holds considerable promise for decreasing carbon footprints.

Treatment of Stormwater	The TSK plant collects seepage water with high levels of total
suspended solids (TSS), chemical oxygen demand (COD), and organic pollutants, making it unsuitable for direct use in the zero effluent discharge (ZED) plant. A pilot plant with an electrochemical reactor, clarifier with ultra-filtration, and polishing unit has achieved nearly 90% reduction in COD, turbidity, and TSS, making the treated water suitable for the ZED plant.

Potential water savings of 250 m/hr.

Grinding aid for enhancing Ball Mill throughput


Pure iron compacts for NdFeB magnets

To address high recirculation load and low ball mill throughput, Tata Steel developed a glycol-based polymer grinding aid, Genie. It enhances grindability by neutralising the surface charge of iron ore particles, reducing sticking and re-agglomeration, which improves flowability and increases mill throughput.
An innovative process for synthesising pure iron compacts from red oxide byproduct, using thermo-chemical reduction and a tumbling operation, produces compacts with a density of 3.2 to 3.5 g/cc and compressive strength of 250 to 270 kg/cm, confirmed to be suitable for bulk handling and melting applications.

The recirculation load is decreased by 10% (from 370 to 330 tonnes/hour), while the throughput increased by 3%.


Valourisation of iron oxide from H6-8/kg at red oxide stage to H250-300/kg at iron compact stage.




6. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link. Tata Steel has a robust Onsite Emergency and Disaster Control Plan aligned with ISO 22301:2019 standards, ensuring business continuity during crises like fires, cyber-attacks, or terrorism. Defined roles, Tactical Centres, and periodic drills
support preparedness. IT systems have backup and recovery plans based on Business Impact Assessments. The enterprise
operates on a secure, scalable hybrid multi-cloud platform with Zero Trust architecture, enabling seamless remote access. Regular reviews, disaster scenario matrices, and secure infrastructure reinforce Tata Steel's commitment to operational continuity and information security across global operations.


7. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
Tata Steel instils the importance of sustainable practices, pertaining to environmental protection, to its value chain partners through initiatives such as Responsible Supply Chain Policy, Sustainable Procurement Framework, etc.
Please refer to the Social and Relationship Capital section of Tata Steel's Integrated Report FY2024-25 for further details.

8. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts.
Tata Steel's Responsible Supply Chain Policy focuses on the four ESG parameters: Health and safety, Fair business practices, Environmental Protection, and Human rights. Additional information on Tata Steel's approach to these principles is under Section C, Principle 2 of this report.
A summary of value chain partners assessed by key Tata Steel entities is provided below:

% of value chain partners assessed (by value of business)Tata Steel LimitedTata Steel Nederland BVTata Steel UK LtdEnvironmental Impact80%44%NA
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent.
Essential Indicators
1. a.	Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
Tata Steel Limited has 35 affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations. Additionally, Tata Steel's subsidiary companies have affiliations with various industry chambers/associations in their respective context. These would include state, national and international bodies.
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No.	Name of the trade and industry chambers/associations	Reach of trade and industry chambers/ associations (State/National)
1. Confederation of Indian Industry

2. Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry

3. Indian Steel Association
4. Indian Chamber of Commerce
5. Institute for Steel Development & Growth
6. World Steel Association
7. ResponsibleSteelTM
8. UN Global Compact
9. Eurofer
10. UK Steel Association

National





International




2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Not applicable.


Leadership Indicators
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
The Company works with all stakeholders, relevant government and regulatory bodies, and apex industry associations, such as the World Steel Association, Confederation of Indian Industry, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry, and Indian Steel Association.

The Tata Code of Conduct guides the Company in all its advocacy. Some areas where the Company pursues policy advocacy are listed below:

Public Policy Advocated	Tata Steel's public policy advocacy seeks to enhance the steel industry's competitiveness and align with national strategic goals. Key efforts include:
1. Improving business ease and reducing costs
2. Increasing steel demand and rationalising mining regulations
3. Enhancing logistics infrastructure
4. Facilitating decarbonisation of the steel sector
5. Addressing unfair imports through trade measures Advocacy examples:
1. Collaborating on decarbonisation policies for the steel sector
2. Promoting a National Carbon Market for incentivising green growth
3. Rationalising mining taxes and ensuring raw material security
4. Advocating for efficient logistics like slurry pipelines
5. Supporting labour issues, gender equality, and skill development
6. Simplifying GST, customs processes, and strengthening legal frameworks
7. Encouraging a circular economy and increased scrap availability
8. Advancing low-carbon technologies like Carbon Capture and green hydrogen use
9. Boosting demand for low-carbon products and circular economy initiatives.

Method resorted for such advocacy
1. 
Tata Steel Limited on a regular basis conducts meetings and dialogues with regulatory authorities and participates in formal and informal consultation process.
2. Leadership of, and participation in National and International Trade Organisations and including membership of various committees and forums of industry bodies, association and international standard setting organisations.

Information available in public domain (Yes/No)?
Frequency of review by Board

No

Quarterly, as part of the Business Performance Update to the Board



Weblink, if applicable	No


Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
Essential Indicators
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year.
In India, it is not applicable for this reporting period.For TSUK, the social impacts of the projects undertaken are considered as part of the EIA. It is not dealt by way of a separate application. Kindly refer Principal 6, Essential Indicator, Q 12.
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, in the following format:


S.
No.


Name of the project for which R&R is ongoing

No. of project
State	District	affected families (PAFs)


   % of PAFs covered by R&R

Amounts paid to PAFs in the FY (in J Cr)

1	Tata Steel's Plant at Kalinganagar	Odisha	Jajpur	1,261	97.41	39.9

3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
Tata Steel's grievance redressal mechanisms are customised to be most effective based on each location's specific requirements. Please refer to Section A, Sub-section VII, Question 25 for the details.
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
Parameter	UoM	Standalone	Consolidated
FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers	%109109Directly from within India	%63636667Note 1: Total Purchases has been calculated in line with the Industry Standards as follows: Total Expenses - Finance Cost - Depreciation and Amortisation Expense - Employee Benefit Expenses excluding staff welfare expense - Other expenses with respect to Royalty, Rates & Taxes, Provision for Doubtful Debts & Advances, Provision for Impairment and Foreign Exchange Gain/Loss + Capital expenditure.
Note 2: Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.

5. Job creation in smaller towns - Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
Location	UoM	Tata Steel Standalone	Tata Steel Indian Entities
FY2024-25	FY2023-24	FY2024-25	FY2023-24
Rural	%0.030.050.220.05Semi-urban	%18.4317.3718.9420.98Urban	%32.1524.2432.5822.35Metropolitan	%49.3958.3448.2656.62Note 1: As per the industry standards released by SEBI, in addition to the permanent employees/workers, salaries to other than permanent employees/workers have included for FY2024-25. Hence the numbers are not comparable to last year's number to that extent.
Note 2: Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25.

Leadership Indicators
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified	Corrective action taken
NA	NA



2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by government bodies:
S. No. State	Aspirational District	Amount Spent
J
1JharkhandEast Singhbhum (Purbi Singhbhum)192.842JharkhandWest Singhbhum (Paschimi Singhbhum)65.773OdishaDhenkanal15.234JharkhandRamgarh13.815JharkhandGumla4.946JharkhandRanchi3.04Total295.63
3.(a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalised /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
Yes, Tata Steel has an Affirmative Action Policy, a preferential policy guided by the Tata Affirmative Action Programme (TAAP), which focuses on three principles: Social Equity, Equal Opportunity, and Inclusion across Affirmative Action (AA) communities.
By focusing on providing business opportunities and developing entrepreneurial capabilities among marginalised sections of society, Tata Steel has not only created positive differentiation in its supply chain but also built a strong foundation for sustainable growth and social responsibility. Out of 2000, supply chain partners from local states, 85 vendor partners belong to the AA and Displaced Person categories.
Please refer to the Social and Relationship Capital section of Tata Steel's Integrated Report FY2024-25 for further details.
Not applicable to the Company's overseas entities.
(b) From which marginalised /vulnerable groups do you procure?
Tata Steel procures from socially disadvantaged sections of society such as companies led by Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, and displaced persons (from the Tata Steel Kalinganagar site), under its Affirmative Action (AA) Policy, reflecting its commitment to social inclusion.
Not applicable to the Company's overseas entities.
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
For Tata Steel Limited, the business volume from Affirmative Action suppliers stood at 19% of the addressable spend (H1,200 crore) - H230 crore in FY2024-25, ~52% higher than that of FY2023-24.
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
Not applicable.
5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Not Applicable.


6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Project

from the project






















Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback
Please refer to Section A, Sub-section VII, Question 25 Grievance Redressal Mechanisms for Customers.
2. Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover (%)
Environmental and Social Parameters52Safe and Responsible Usage11Recycling and/or Safe Disposal17
3.
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:FY2024-25FY2023-24
Received during	 Pending at the	Remarks the year	end of the year     Received	 Pending at the during the year	end of the yearRemarks

Data Privacy00



Nil00



NilAdvertising0000Cyber security0000Essential services delivery0000Restrictive trade practices0000Unfair trade practices00160Others16,02190119,2581,117


4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:



Number	Reasons for recall



Voluntary recalls	0
NA
Forced recalls	0

5. Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes, Tata Steel has a comprehensive policy on data privacy. The policy can be found at the following link: https://www. tatasteel.com/privacy-policy/
For more details, please refer to the Ethics and Compliance section of Tata Steel's Integrated Report for FY2024-25.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services; cyber security `and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.
There has been no such instance which has occurred during FY2024-25.
7. Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
FY2024-25	Standalone	Consolidated
Number of instances of data breaches00Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers00No. of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers00Impact, if any, of the data breaches00Note: Reasonable Assurance has been undertaken by Price Waterhouse & Co. Chartered Accountants LLP, on the indicators in the table above for Standalone figures for FY2024-25 (highlighted in green).

Leadership Indicators
1. Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if available).
All Tata Steel Group entities have dedicated sections on their websites where detailed information on products and services are provided. Some key websites are listed below:

1www.tatasteel.com7.	www.tatasteeluisl.com2https://ecafez.tatasteel.co.in8.	www.tsdpl.in3https://digeca.tatasteel.com/9.	https://www.tatasteeluk.com/4.https://aashiyana.tatasteel.com/in/en.html10. https://www.tatasteelnederland.com/5.www.tatasteeleurope.com6.www.tatasteelthailand.com
Tata Steel has focused on creation of digital platforms to strengthen direct connect with customers and channel partners. These solutions are designed to provide innovative services and solutions for all segments.


2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services. Tata Steel engages its diverse customer base to highlight product features and responsible usage through brochures and channel partners. Educational initiatives like "Create (Value in Use)", "Techtalk", "Skilling India", and "insIITe" benefit
over 3,000 MSME customers with technology updates and safe production practices. The Tiscon Learning Academy
upskilled over 800 sales personnel, while the Daksh initiative improved sales-pitch skills for 350+ partners. The Grand Master programme onboarded 5,000+ new ACEs, and the MITR initiative engaged 40,000 masons and bar-benders with skill-building and health insurance support.
Micro-segment meetings such as Solarix, Panorama, Applicon, Ducticon, Agrinext, and Railcon educate niche sectors like solar, HVAC, agriculture, and railways. Technical workshops cover manufacturing, safety, and quality aspects. Tata Shaktee and Tata Kosh train 280 sales officers via the Learner's Academy app and connect with consumers through media, reaching 50 lakh people, 40,000 farmers, 9,000 dealers, and 14,000 fabricators. B2B initiatives like Value Addition Value Engineering, and Early Vendor Involvement support optimal product usage.
The Wired2Win platform and "Building Bonds" seminars engage construction professionals. Tata Steel's Product Application Group advises on suitable steel grades for better performance and cost-efficiency. Active social media presence on Facebook, Instagram, X, and LinkedIn educates and engages consumers. Tata Steel UK offers continuous professional development training for engineers and architects and technical support to optimise steel usage. These efforts demonstrate Tata Steel's commitment to customer education and responsible product usage.
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services:
Tata Steel keeps customers informed of supply disruptions through robust communication systems.
Direct Channels: Sales, marketing, CRM, and supply chain teams maintain daily contact with customers via email and phone, monitoring orders and reporting deviations.
Digital Platforms: Compass app & web portal (India) provide real-time supply chain visibility.
Dispatch Notification Services (India B2B): Daily summaries of dispatches.
Nexus eCommerce portal (Tata Steel UK): Order status updates and delivery tracking.
Broad Communication: Major disruptions are announced via website, social media, and press releases.
Proactive Mitigation: Internal processes allow scheduling adjustments based on customer feedback to minimise risks. Planned service discontinuations and unexpected disruptions are communicated through Account Teams.


4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No).
Yes, Tata Steel provides product information that goes beyond mandated standards. In the Indian steel industry, Tata Steel has taken the lead when it comes to product environmental certification. The Confederation of Indian Industry has certified the following Tata Steel products/brands as GreenPro.
a) Steel Rebars (Tata Tiscon)
b) Tubes (Tata Structura, Tata Pipes, Tata Ezyfit)
c) Steel Doors and Windows (Pravesh)
d) Ground Granulated Blast Furnace Slag
e) Automotive Products (Hot-Rolled, Cold-Rolled and Galvanised Products)
Customer satisfaction survey:
Yes, Tata Steel measures customer satisfaction and customer experience by conducting an annual customer satisfaction survey that includes direct business-to-business customers; MSME sector clients; and channel partners. The 6-point rating system used by respondents to rate Tata Steel on various attributes, including product quality, new product development, delivery, commercials, relationship & engagement, complaint handling, and technical support. A comprehensive score is hence generated for measuring & benchmarking the performance. Findings of the survey and action plan taken are shared with the senior leadership team and are used to develop future plans of the Company.
The trend of Tata Steel Limited's Customer Satisfaction Index over the last three calendar years is provided below:

CY 2024CY 2023CY 2022CSI Score Trend (Out of 100)	85.186.183.8


























